OpenAI Codex v0.126.0-alpha.8 (research preview)
--------
workdir: /tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369
model: gpt-5.5
provider: openai
approval: never
sandbox: danger-full-access
reasoning effort: medium
reasoning summaries: none
session id: 019de38a-e9d6-79c2-b0e8-71034e58d495
--------
user
You are an independent blinded evaluator in a benchmark of scientific writing quality.

Evaluator Metadata
- Run ID: run-2026-05-01-D003
- Evaluator ID: E1
- Packet ID: packet_35bb698369
- Prompt version: evaluation-arrangement55-v1
- Markdown output path: comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
- Scores TSV path: comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
- Pairwise TSV path: comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv

Blinding Rules
- Article labels are neutral nicknames. Do not infer source, skill, model, condition, or replicate from them.
- Evaluate only the fixed dossier and the five blinded articles in this packet.
- Ignore presentation position as much as possible; earlier or later placement is not meaningful.
- Do not use web search or external sources.
- Do not reward facts absent from the dossier.
- Penalize invented or unsupported claims.

Scoring Dimensions
- scientific_fidelity: 20 points
- article_structure: 15 points
- reader_orientation: 15 points
- cohesion_coherence: 20 points
- evidence_uncertainty: 15 points
- style_readability: 10 points
- constraint_following: 5 points

Required Output Files
1. Save a Markdown evaluation note to `comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md`.
2. Save a tab-separated score table to `comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv` with exactly this header:
   evaluator_id	packet_id	nickname	scientific_fidelity	article_structure	reader_orientation	cohesion_coherence	evidence_uncertainty	style_readability	constraint_following	total_score	rank	one_sentence_justification
3. Save a tab-separated pairwise table to `comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv` with exactly this header:
   evaluator_id	packet_id	nickname_a	nickname_b	preferred_nickname	reason

Score Table Rules
- Include exactly one score row for each of the five article nicknames.
- Scores must be integers, and total_score must equal the seven dimension scores.
- Rank 1 is strongest within this packet.
- Do not include tabs inside justifications.

Pairwise Table Rules
- Include every unordered pair among the five article nicknames exactly once: 10 rows.
- preferred_nickname must be one article nickname or Tie.
- Do not include tabs inside reasons.

Fixed Dossier
---
---
dossier_id: D002
created_at_utc: 2026-05-01T10:42:51Z
created_by: Codex
source_dossier: comparing/dossiers/D001_caspase5c_wnt_intestinal_homeostasis.md
source_pdf: comparing/blinded_articles/s41586-026-10343-8.pdf
source_article: "Jia, B., Shi, Y., Hong, Y. et al. Caspase 5c amplifies Wnt via APC cleavage to promote intestinal homeostasis. Nature 652, 1362-1374 (2026). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-026-10343-8"
article_type: scientific article
audience: life-science researchers
word_count_target: 1500-1800 words
citation_style: none
web_access_allowed: false
noise_profile: simplified notes with deliberate disorder, repeated points, typos, grammar errors, and a few confusing transitions
---

# Source Notes

These notes are the source packet for one article. They are not arranged in
article order. Some wording is rough, some items repeat, and some transitions
are missing.

- CASP5 is one of the inflammatory caspase-family proteases. It is similar to
  CASP4 and to mouse caspase 11, but what CASP5 actually does has not been
  very clear.
- Human CASP4 looked more like mouse caspase 11 in sequence/phylogeny and was
  the main actor in the tested noncanonical inflammasome response to cytosolic
  LPS and bacteria. CASP5 did not do this job in the experiments with human
  intestinal epithelial cells and macrophages.
- So the question was maybe CASP5 has another function, esp in intestine.
  CASP5 expression was more concentrated in intestinal tract/appendix and in
  epithelial cells plus some monocyte/macrophage populations.
- In colonic organoids CASP5 was higher than CASP4, CASP1 and PYCARD compared
  with macrophages. CASP4 was broader.
- Organoids from human colon and small intestine expressed three isoforms:
  CASP5A, CASP5B, CASP5C. Approx sizes: 49.7 kDa, 43.2 kDa, 33.3 kDa.
- CASP5B is missing part of the CARD region. CASP5C has no CARD. It was not
  just a cleavage product of CASP5A/B according to siRNA experiments.
- CASP5 increased after Salmonella, IFN-beta, IFN-gamma in organoids, but LPS
  alone did not raise it much in epithelium, probably because TLR4 low.
- BioID2 in human colonic organoids found DVL1, DVL2, DVL3 near CASP5.
  Wnt-related terms appeared in the interactor analysis.
- CASP5 isoforms co-immunoprecipitated with DVL1/2/3. DVL2 complexes also had
  AXIN1 and beta-catenin. The binding involved DVL DEP domain and CASP5
  catalytic domain, maybe direct but not fully proven.
- Wnt/beta-catenin controls intestinal development, repair, stem-cell renewal
  and differentiation. DVL connects Wnt receptor events to downstream beta
  catenin control. APC is scaffold/tumor suppressor in the destruction complex.
- TOPFlash assays: CASP5C increased Wnt reporter activity in HEK293T and HCT116
  cells, with or without WNT3A. CASP5A, CASP5B, CASP1, CASP4 did not do the
  same.
- CASP5C increased AXIN2 and TCF7 and moved beta-catenin into nucleus/cytosol.
  CASP5A or CASP5B could compete with CASP5C for DVL2 and reduce this effect.
- Tested CARD-less mouse caspase 11 forms did not copy the Wnt effect, so maybe
  this is primate CASP5 specialization after duplication. Do not over say this.
- In organoids, CASP5C but not CASP5A/B increased Wnt reporter activity.
  CASP5C made more viable cells, around 40% bigger organoids, more Ki-67 and
  EdU positive cells, fewer CK20 enterocytes.
- CASP5C increased some Wnt/proliferation markers in colonic organoids:
  AXIN2 about 3-fold, TCF7 1.4-fold, MYC 1.3-fold, LGR5 1.2-fold, MKI67
  2.4-fold. ALPI and MUC2 went down about 57% and 53%.
- CASP5C-expressing organoids could grow longer without Wnt and re-enter cell
  cycle after Wnt came back. This sounds like it helps repair but do not say
  proven in human body.
- In irradiated human colonic organoids, CASP5c transcript increased 42.4-fold
  in 24 h; CASP5a 5.6-fold; CASP5b 6.6-fold. Then LGR5, OLFM4, TCF7 and MYC
  went up faster in CASP5C-expressing organoids.
- Mechanism note, but order confusing: CASP5C reduced DVL2, beta-catenin,
  phospho-beta-catenin, APC and beta-TrCP in AXIN1-containing complexes after
  Wnt stimulation. It also reduced beta-catenin ubiquitination.
- The catalytic mutant CASP5C(C173A) lost reporter activation and beta-catenin
  effects. CASP5C had higher enzymatic activity than CASP5A/B. Removing CARD
  from CASP5A/B made them more active and gave more Wnt reporter signalling.
- APC cleavage: predicted CASP5 sites in APC, mostly N-terminal. CASP5C made
  APC cleavage products; CASP5A/B and CASP5C(C173A) did not. Recombinant
  CASP5C directly cleaved truncated APC in vitro.
- APC D556A mutation removed the major cleavage products. In APC knockout
  HEK293T, adding wild-type APC let CASP5C disrupt the complex and increase Wnt
  reporter activity; APC(D556A) made this weaker. APC fragments that look like
  cleavage products reduced beta-catenin in destruction complex and increased
  reporter activity.
- Important: D556 is a primary site but maybe other APC cleavage sites also do
  something. Do not make D556 the only possible site.
- Localization is weird: CASP5 transcripts nearly absent in LGR5+ stem cells,
  higher in transit-amplifying cells, highest in enterocytes in one scRNA
  analysis. But CASP5c was deeper in crypts and overlapped with MKI67 and
  AXIN2 more than CASP5a/b. CASP5A/B more luminal/differentiated/CK20.
- Pseudotime and CIBERSORTx supported CASP5c with early-lineage or
  transit-amplifying cells; CASP5a/b with mature/differentiating states.
- In differentiation after Wnt withdrawal CASP5c peaked early with MKI67,
  CASP5a/b later with differentiation markers.
- Knock down CASP5a and CASP5b while keeping CASP5C caused higher Wnt reporter,
  bigger organoids, more ATP, more EdU and Ki-67. When CASP5c also knocked down
  these effects went back down. This support competition model: CASP5A/B can
  restrain CASP5C by DVL2 competition.
- Disease notes are only associations. CASP5 and CASP4 increased in ulcerative
  colitis datasets but kept their cell type patterns. CASP5 mutations in colon
  or rectal cancer were around 3%, similar to AXIN1 in that analysis.
- CASP5 mutations tended to co-occur with Wnt-pathway mutations but were
  mutually exclusive with APC mutations in the reported analysis. In MSI-high
  colorectal cancer, CASP5 mutations were reported more often than APC in one
  comparison, about 68% vs 17%.
- The cancer/IBD stuff is temptng for therapy story but it is not proven. Do
  not claim CASP5C cause cancer, UC, IBD, or that it is a validated drug target.
- Also do not say all CASP5 isoforms promote Wnt. CASP5C is the one that did.
  CASP5A/B can restrain the CASP5C effect.
- No supplied reference list. Do not add bibliography.
---

Blinded Articles
---
### Zephyr

# Caspase 5c amplifies Wnt signalling through APC cleavage in intestinal epithelial models

## Abstract

Inflammatory caspases are best known for innate immune sensing, but the function of human CASP5 has remained less clear than that of CASP4 and mouse caspase 11. Here, we define an isoform-specific activity of CASP5 in intestinal epithelial models. Human intestinal organoids expressed CASP5A, CASP5B and the CARD-less CASP5C. CASP5 expression was enriched in intestinal tissues and epithelial populations, and CASP5C was induced strongly after epithelial injury. Proteomic and biochemical analyses linked CASP5 isoforms to Dishevelled proteins. CASP5C, but not CASP5A, CASP5B, CASP1 or CASP4, increased beta-catenin-dependent reporter activity, promoted Wnt and proliferation-associated genes, expanded organoid growth, and reduced differentiation markers. CASP5C required its catalytic cysteine and cleaved APC, with D556 contributing to a major cleavage event. CASP5A and CASP5B competed with CASP5C for DVL2 and restrained its signalling effect. These findings support a model in which CASP5C amplifies Wnt signalling in intestinal epithelial systems by modifying the beta-catenin destruction complex.

## Introduction

Human CASP5 belongs to the inflammatory caspase family, which also includes CASP4 and the mouse orthologue-like caspase 11. CASP4 and caspase 11 are established effectors of noncanonical inflammasome responses to cytosolic lipopolysaccharide and intracellular bacteria. CASP5 is related to these proteins, but its biological role has been less settled. In the systems examined here, human CASP4 more closely resembled mouse caspase 11 in sequence and phylogenetic analyses and acted as the principal mediator of tested noncanonical inflammasome responses, whereas CASP5 did not perform that role in human intestinal epithelial cells or macrophages. This separation raised a basic question: if CASP5 is not simply a redundant noncanonical inflammasome caspase, what does it do?

The intestine provided a plausible context for this question because CASP5 expression was concentrated in the intestinal tract and appendix and was detected in epithelial cells as well as some monocyte and macrophage populations. In human colonic organoids, CASP5 was expressed at higher levels than CASP4, CASP1 and PYCARD when compared with macrophages, whereas CASP4 showed a broader distribution. CASP5 expression increased after Salmonella infection and after interferon-beta or interferon-gamma, while lipopolysaccharide alone had little effect in epithelial organoids, consistent with low epithelial TLR4 expression. These observations suggested that intestinal epithelial CASP5 might have a function distinct from canonical inflammatory caspase responses.

Wnt/beta-catenin signalling regulates intestinal development, epithelial repair, stem-cell renewal and differentiation. Dishevelled proteins connect Wnt receptor activation to downstream beta-catenin control, whereas APC acts as a tumour-suppressive scaffold within the destruction complex. Because epithelial homeostasis depends on the balance between Wnt-driven proliferation and differentiation, we asked whether CASP5 isoforms interact with Wnt pathway components and whether any isoform changes beta-catenin signalling in intestinal epithelial models.

## Experimental approach

The study combined human tissue and cell-expression analyses, intestinal organoid models, proteomic interaction mapping, biochemical assays and Wnt reporter systems. Human colon and small-intestinal organoids defined CASP5 isoform expression and epithelial responses. BioID2 proximity labelling identified proteins near CASP5, and co-immunoprecipitation tested association with candidate pathway components. Wnt activity was measured with beta-catenin-dependent reporter assays in HEK293T, HCT116 and organoid systems. Organoid viability, size, proliferation and differentiation were assessed using ATP, Ki-67, EdU and lineage-marker measurements. Mechanistic tests used catalytic mutants, CARD deletions, APC knockout cells, APC cleavage-site mutations, APC fragments and in vitro cleavage of recombinant APC substrates.

## Results

Human intestinal organoids expressed three CASP5 isoforms: CASP5A, CASP5B and CASP5C, with approximate predicted sizes of 49.7 kDa, 43.2 kDa and 33.3 kDa. CASP5B lacked part of the CARD region, and CASP5C lacked the CARD entirely. Small interfering RNA experiments indicated that CASP5C was not simply a cleavage product of CASP5A or CASP5B, supporting its treatment as a distinct isoform. This isoform structure was important because the absence of the CARD domain correlated with a functional behaviour not shared by the longer isoforms.

Proximity labelling provided the first link between CASP5 and Wnt signalling. BioID2 in human colonic organoids identified DVL1, DVL2 and DVL3 near CASP5, and Wnt-related terms were enriched in the interactor analysis. Co-immunoprecipitation confirmed that CASP5 isoforms associated with DVL1, DVL2 and DVL3. DVL2 complexes also included AXIN1 and beta-catenin, placing CASP5 near the beta-catenin destruction machinery. Domain mapping implicated the DVL DEP domain and the CASP5 catalytic domain, although the evidence does not by itself prove direct binding between purified proteins.

Functional assays showed that Wnt amplification was specific to CASP5C. In TOPFlash reporter assays, CASP5C increased Wnt/beta-catenin reporter activity in HEK293T and HCT116 cells, both with and without WNT3A stimulation. CASP5A, CASP5B, CASP1 and CASP4 did not produce the same response. CASP5C also increased AXIN2 and TCF7 expression and shifted beta-catenin into the nuclear and cytosolic fractions. CARD-less forms of mouse caspase 11 did not reproduce this Wnt effect, suggesting that CASP5C may represent a primate-specialized activity after gene duplication, although that evolutionary interpretation remains bounded by the tested comparisons.

The isoform specificity was also evident in human intestinal organoids. CASP5C, but not CASP5A or CASP5B, increased Wnt reporter activity. Organoids expressing CASP5C contained more viable cells, were approximately 40% larger, and showed increased Ki-67 and EdU positivity. CASP5C also reduced CK20-positive enterocytes. At the transcript level, CASP5C increased AXIN2 by about threefold, TCF7 by 1.4-fold, MYC by 1.3-fold, LGR5 by 1.2-fold and MKI67 by 2.4-fold, whereas ALPI and MUC2 decreased by about 57% and 53%. Together, these results indicate that CASP5C favours a Wnt-high, proliferative organoid state rather than a differentiated epithelial state.

CASP5C also affected organoid behaviour during Wnt withdrawal and restoration. CASP5C-expressing organoids maintained growth for longer without Wnt and re-entered the cell cycle more readily when Wnt was restored. In irradiated human colonic organoids, CASP5c increased 42.4-fold within 24 hours, compared with 5.6-fold for CASP5a and 6.6-fold for CASP5b. After irradiation, LGR5, OLFM4, TCF7 and MYC rose faster in CASP5C-expressing organoids. These data are consistent with a role for CASP5C in epithelial regenerative programs in organoid systems, but they do not establish that CASP5C is required for repair in vivo.

Single-cell and differentiation analyses placed the isoforms along epithelial maturation trajectories. CASP5 transcripts were nearly absent from LGR5-positive stem cells in one single-cell RNA-sequencing analysis, higher in transit-amplifying cells and highest in enterocytes. Within that pattern, CASP5c was detected deeper in crypt regions and overlapped more with MKI67 and AXIN2 than did CASP5a or CASP5b. CASP5A and CASP5B were more luminal and associated with differentiated or CK20-positive states. Pseudotime, CIBERSORTx and Wnt-withdrawal differentiation analyses similarly linked CASP5c to early-lineage or transit-amplifying states and CASP5a/b to mature or differentiating states.

The longer CASP5 isoforms did not merely lack activity; they could restrain CASP5C. CASP5A and CASP5B competed with CASP5C for DVL2 and reduced CASP5C-dependent beta-catenin signalling. Consistent with this model, knockdown of CASP5a and CASP5b while retaining CASP5C increased Wnt reporter activity, organoid size, ATP levels, EdU incorporation and Ki-67 positivity. When CASP5c was also knocked down, these effects decreased. Thus, isoform balance, rather than total CASP5 expression alone, appears to shape epithelial Wnt output.

Mechanistic experiments connected CASP5C activity to the beta-catenin destruction complex. After Wnt stimulation, CASP5C reduced DVL2, beta-catenin, phosphorylated beta-catenin, APC and beta-TrCP in AXIN1-containing complexes and reduced beta-catenin ubiquitination. A catalytic mutant, CASP5C(C173A), lost reporter activation and beta-catenin effects. CASP5C also had higher enzymatic activity than CASP5A or CASP5B, and removing the CARD from CASP5A or CASP5B increased enzymatic activity and Wnt reporter signalling. These findings indicate that CASP5C requires catalytic activity and that CARD-containing N-terminal regions may limit this activity.

APC emerged as a key substrate linking CASP5C catalysis to Wnt amplification. Predicted CASP5 cleavage sites in APC were concentrated mainly in the N-terminal region. CASP5C generated APC cleavage products, whereas CASP5A, CASP5B and CASP5C(C173A) did not, and recombinant CASP5C directly cleaved truncated APC in vitro. Mutation of APC D556 removed the major cleavage products, identifying D556 as a primary site, although other APC sites may also contribute. In APC-knockout HEK293T cells, wild-type APC allowed CASP5C to disrupt destruction-complex assembly and increase Wnt reporter activity, whereas APC(D556A) weakened these effects. APC fragments resembling cleavage products also reduced beta-catenin in the destruction complex and increased reporter activity. These results support a model in which CASP5C cleaves APC and attenuates destruction-complex control of beta-catenin.

## Discussion

This study identifies an epithelial, isoform-specific function for human CASP5 that is distinct from the tested noncanonical inflammasome role of CASP4. CASP5C amplified Wnt/beta-catenin signalling in human cell and organoid systems, increased proliferative organoid features and reduced differentiation markers. The activity required the catalytic cysteine and was linked to APC cleavage and altered AXIN1-containing destruction-complex assemblies. CASP5A and CASP5B, by contrast, did not amplify Wnt and could restrain CASP5C by competing for DVL2. The central conclusion is therefore not that CASP5 generally promotes Wnt signalling, but that CASP5C can do so in a manner shaped by isoform balance.

The data also clarify why intestinal context matters for CASP5 biology. CASP5 expression was enriched in intestinal epithelial settings, induced by infection-associated and interferon signals, and strongly increased after irradiation in organoids. CASP5c aligned with crypt-like, MKI67-positive and AXIN2-positive compartments more than the longer isoforms, whereas CASP5a/b aligned more with differentiating states. Because total CASP5 transcripts were nearly absent from LGR5-positive stem cells in one analysis, CASP5C may act most prominently in transit-amplifying or early-lineage epithelial states rather than in the most canonical LGR5-positive stem-cell compartment.

The proposed mechanism places CASP5C upstream of beta-catenin stabilization through APC cleavage. APC has a central scaffolding role in the destruction complex, and CASP5C-dependent APC cleavage provides a plausible route by which beta-catenin ubiquitination and destruction-complex association were reduced. The APC D556A experiments identify D556 as important for the major observed cleavage products, but they do not exclude additional APC cleavage sites or parallel contributions from other complex components. The DVL interaction may recruit CASP5 isoforms near Wnt regulatory machinery, although its directness and structural details remain unresolved.

The disease-related observations are best interpreted as hypotheses-generating associations. CASP5 and CASP4 were increased in ulcerative colitis datasets while preserving their cell-type patterns. CASP5 mutations appeared in approximately 3% of colon or rectal cancers, tended to co-occur with Wnt-pathway mutations, and were mutually exclusive with APC mutations in the reported analysis. In MSI-high colorectal cancer, CASP5 mutations were reported more often than APC in one comparison. These findings are consistent with a relationship between CASP5 alterations and Wnt-pathway states, but they do not show that CASP5C causes inflammatory bowel disease or cancer, nor do they establish CASP5C as a validated therapeutic target.

Overall, the findings expand the functional range of inflammatory caspase-family proteins by assigning CASP5C a noncanonical role in epithelial Wnt regulation. In human intestinal organoids and engineered cell systems, CASP5C cleaves APC, weakens destruction-complex control of beta-catenin and promotes a proliferative Wnt-responsive state. The work leaves important next questions about in vivo isoform regulation, epithelial repair and colorectal disease. The strongest supported takeaway is that CASP5C can amplify Wnt signalling through APC cleavage in intestinal epithelial models.
### Vale

# Caspase 5c amplifies Wnt signalling through APC cleavage in human intestinal epithelial cells

Inflammatory caspases are best known as proteases that connect microbial sensing to innate immune effector pathways. Among the human family members, CASP4 has been most clearly aligned with mouse caspase 11 and with the noncanonical inflammasome response to cytosolic lipopolysaccharide and invasive bacteria. CASP5 is closely related, but its specific contribution has remained less certain. The work summarized here resolves part of that ambiguity by separating CASP5 from CASP4 functionally and by identifying a distinct role for one CASP5 isoform, CASP5C, in Wnt regulation in human intestinal epithelium.

The study began from a comparative problem. In human intestinal epithelial cells and macrophages, CASP4 behaved as the principal mediator of the tested noncanonical inflammasome response to cytosolic LPS and bacteria. CASP5 did not substitute for this activity. This negative result redirected attention to tissue context and isoform specificity. CASP5 expression was concentrated in the intestinal tract and appendix, with signal in epithelial cells and in some monocyte and macrophage populations. In colonic organoids, CASP5 expression exceeded CASP4, CASP1 and PYCARD relative to macrophages, whereas CASP4 showed a broader pattern. These observations suggested that CASP5 might have an epithelial role that is not simply a duplicate of CASP4.

Human colon and small-intestinal organoids expressed three CASP5 isoforms: CASP5A, CASP5B and CASP5C, with approximate predicted sizes of 49.7, 43.2 and 33.3 kDa. The isoforms differ in their N-terminal CARD architecture. CASP5B lacks part of the CARD region, and CASP5C lacks the CARD entirely. Importantly, CASP5C was not explained as a proteolytic fragment derived from CASP5A or CASP5B, because siRNA experiments supported it as a separately expressed transcript product. CASP5 expression rose after Salmonella infection and after IFN-beta or IFN-gamma stimulation in organoids, while LPS alone had little effect in the epithelium, consistent with low epithelial TLR4 responsiveness.

To identify possible epithelial functions, the investigators used proximity labeling in human colonic organoids. BioID2 experiments recovered DVL1, DVL2 and DVL3 near CASP5, and Wnt-related terms emerged from interactor analysis. Co-immunoprecipitation confirmed that CASP5 isoforms associated with DVL proteins. DVL2 complexes also contained AXIN1 and beta-catenin, placing CASP5 near the machinery that controls beta-catenin stability. Mapping experiments pointed to an interaction between the DVL DEP domain and the CASP5 catalytic domain. The data are consistent with a close, possibly direct, molecular association, although direct binding was not fully established.

This connection was biologically plausible because Wnt/beta-catenin signalling is central to intestinal development, epithelial repair, stem-cell renewal and differentiation. DVL proteins relay receptor-proximal Wnt signals to downstream beta-catenin control, while APC acts as a scaffold and tumor suppressor component of the beta-catenin destruction complex. A CASP5 interaction with DVL therefore raised the possibility that CASP5 might affect Wnt output. However, the effect proved to be isoform-specific. In TOPFlash reporter assays in HEK293T and HCT116 cells, CASP5C increased Wnt reporter activity with or without WNT3A stimulation. CASP5A, CASP5B, CASP1 and CASP4 did not reproduce this effect.

CASP5C also increased expression of Wnt target genes, including AXIN2 and TCF7, and promoted redistribution of beta-catenin into nuclear and cytosolic pools. CASP5A and CASP5B could compete with CASP5C for DVL2 and reduce CASP5C-driven signalling, indicating that the longer isoforms are not simply inactive bystanders. Rather, they can restrain the CARD-less isoform. Experiments with CARD-less forms of mouse caspase 11 did not reproduce the Wnt effect, supporting the interpretation that CASP5C reflects a primate CASP5 specialization after gene duplication, although this evolutionary conclusion should remain cautious.

The same isoform selectivity was observed in organoid models. CASP5C, but not CASP5A or CASP5B, increased Wnt reporter activity in intestinal organoids. CASP5C-expressing organoids contained more viable cells, were approximately 40% larger, and showed increased Ki-67 and EdU positivity, consistent with greater proliferative activity. They also had fewer CK20-positive enterocytes, indicating a shift away from differentiated enterocyte identity. At the transcript level, CASP5C increased Wnt and proliferation markers in colonic organoids, including AXIN2 by about threefold, TCF7 by 1.4-fold, MYC by 1.3-fold, LGR5 by 1.2-fold and MKI67 by 2.4-fold. Differentiation-associated markers declined, with ALPI and MUC2 reduced by approximately 57% and 53%, respectively.

Functional stress and withdrawal experiments extended these observations without overstepping them. CASP5C-expressing organoids were able to grow longer in the absence of Wnt and to re-enter the cell cycle after Wnt was restored. In irradiated human colonic organoids, CASP5c transcript increased strongly within 24 hours, rising 42.4-fold, compared with 5.6-fold for CASP5a and 6.6-fold for CASP5b. After irradiation, LGR5, OLFM4, TCF7 and MYC rose faster in CASP5C-expressing organoids. These data support a model in which CASP5C can enhance epithelial regenerative programs in organoid systems, but they do not by themselves prove an equivalent repair mechanism in the human body.

The mechanistic data converge on the beta-catenin destruction complex. After Wnt stimulation, CASP5C reduced the abundance of DVL2, beta-catenin, phospho-beta-catenin, APC and beta-TrCP in AXIN1-containing complexes. CASP5C also reduced beta-catenin ubiquitination. These changes are consistent with weakening of the destruction complex and stabilization or redistribution of beta-catenin. Catalytic activity was required: a CASP5C(C173A) mutant lost Wnt reporter activation and beta-catenin effects. CASP5C also showed higher enzymatic activity than CASP5A and CASP5B, and removal of the CARD from CASP5A or CASP5B increased enzymatic activity and conferred stronger Wnt reporter signalling. Thus, the CARD-less architecture of CASP5C appears to be functionally important, not merely a structural curiosity.

APC emerged as a key substrate linking CASP5C catalytic activity to Wnt amplification. Predicted CASP5 cleavage sites in APC were concentrated mainly in the N-terminal region. CASP5C generated APC cleavage products, whereas CASP5A, CASP5B and catalytically inactive CASP5C(C173A) did not. Recombinant CASP5C directly cleaved truncated APC in vitro, supporting APC as a direct substrate. Mutation of APC aspartate 556 to alanine removed the major cleavage products. In APC-knockout HEK293T cells, reintroduction of wild-type APC allowed CASP5C to disrupt destruction-complex assembly and increase Wnt reporter activity, while APC(D556A) weakened this response. APC fragments resembling cleavage products reduced beta-catenin association with the destruction complex and increased reporter activity. D556 is therefore a primary cleavage site in the tested system, although other APC cleavage sites may also contribute.

This mechanism also helps reconcile why CASP5C can increase Wnt output both in the presence and absence of exogenous WNT3A in reporter assays. Rather than acting only at the receptor-proximal step, CASP5C appears to alter the downstream complex that normally limits beta-catenin. The DVL association may position the protease near AXIN1-containing assemblies, and APC cleavage would reduce the ability of those assemblies to retain and process beta-catenin for ubiquitination. The available data do not require CASP5C to replace canonical Wnt receptor signalling. Instead, they support an amplification model in which CASP5C lowers the restraint imposed by the destruction complex, allowing stronger beta-catenin-dependent transcription when the pathway is engaged.

The cellular localization data add complexity to the model. In one single-cell RNA analysis, CASP5 transcripts were nearly absent in LGR5-positive stem cells, higher in transit-amplifying cells, and highest in enterocytes. At the isoform level, however, CASP5c was more enriched deeper in crypt regions and overlapped more with MKI67 and AXIN2 than CASP5a or CASP5b. CASP5A and CASP5B were more associated with luminal, differentiated and CK20-positive compartments. Pseudotime and CIBERSORTx analyses similarly linked CASP5c with early-lineage or transit-amplifying states and CASP5a/b with more mature or differentiating states. During differentiation induced by Wnt withdrawal, CASP5c peaked early along with MKI67, whereas CASP5a and CASP5b rose later with differentiation markers.

Loss-of-function experiments strengthened the idea that the isoforms form a regulatory balance. Knockdown of CASP5a and CASP5b while preserving CASP5C increased Wnt reporter activity, organoid size, ATP levels, EdU incorporation and Ki-67 staining. When CASP5c was also knocked down, these gains declined. This pattern supports a competition model in which CASP5A and CASP5B limit CASP5C activity at least partly by competing for DVL2-associated complexes. It also explains why total CASP5 expression alone is an incomplete readout: the biological outcome depends on which isoform predominates and in which epithelial state.

Disease-associated observations provide context but not proof of causation. CASP5 and CASP4 were increased in ulcerative colitis datasets while maintaining their cell-type patterns. In colorectal cancer datasets, CASP5 mutations occurred in approximately 3% of colon or rectal cancers, similar to AXIN1 in the same analysis. CASP5 mutations tended to co-occur with Wnt-pathway mutations but were reported as mutually exclusive with APC mutations. In MSI-high colorectal cancer, CASP5 mutations were reported more often than APC mutations in one comparison, approximately 68% versus 17%. These associations are intriguing because CASP5C can affect Wnt signalling through APC cleavage in experimental systems, but they do not establish that CASP5C causes cancer or inflammatory bowel disease, nor do they validate CASP5C as a therapeutic target.

Together, the findings define a noncanonical function for a human inflammatory caspase isoform in intestinal epithelial Wnt control. CASP5C, the CARD-less CASP5 isoform, associates with DVL-containing complexes, requires catalytic activity, cleaves APC, weakens destruction-complex function, reduces beta-catenin ubiquitination and amplifies Wnt/beta-catenin output. CASP5A and CASP5B do not share this Wnt-promoting activity under the tested conditions and can restrain CASP5C, probably through competition for DVL2. The result is an isoform-specific regulatory circuit that links inflammatory-caspase biology to epithelial proliferation and differentiation programs in human organoids. The central message is therefore precise: CASP5 is not simply a second CASP4, and not all CASP5 isoforms promote Wnt. CASP5C is the isoform that amplifies Wnt signalling, with APC cleavage providing a mechanistic bridge between caspase activity and intestinal epithelial homeostasis.
### Dawn

# Caspase 5c amplifies epithelial Wnt signalling through APC cleavage in intestinal homeostasis

## Abstract

Inflammatory caspases are best known as innate immune proteases, yet the biological function of human CASP5 has remained less defined than that of CASP4 or mouse caspase 11. Here, human intestinal epithelial models reveal an isoform-specific role for CASP5C in Wnt/beta-catenin regulation. CASP5 was enriched in intestinal tissues and epithelial organoids, where three isoforms, CASP5A, CASP5B and CARD-lacking CASP5C, were detected. CASP5C, but not CASP5A, CASP5B, CASP1 or CASP4, increased Wnt reporter activity, promoted beta-catenin redistribution, induced Wnt target genes and expanded proliferative organoid compartments. CASP5 isoforms associated with Dishevelled proteins through interactions involving the Dishevelled DEP domain and CASP5 catalytic domain. CASP5C enzymatic activity was required for pathway activation and was linked to APC cleavage, with D556 contributing to major cleavage products. CASP5A and CASP5B competed with CASP5C for DVL2 and restrained its signalling effect.

## Introduction

Canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signalling supports intestinal development, crypt maintenance, stem-cell renewal, transit-amplifying proliferation and repair after injury, while requiring tight control to preserve differentiation. A core regulatory feature is the beta-catenin destruction complex, in which APC acts as scaffold and tumour suppressor. Dishevelled proteins link receptor-proximal Wnt events to downstream remodelling of this complex.

Inflammatory caspases are usually considered in the context of host defence and inflammasome-related responses. Human CASP4 resembles mouse caspase 11 by sequence and phylogeny and functions as a principal mediator of tested noncanonical inflammasome responses to cytosolic lipopolysaccharide and bacteria. By contrast, the function of CASP5 has been unclear. Experiments in human intestinal epithelial cells and macrophages did not support CASP5 as the main executor of the tested noncanonical response, raising the possibility that CASP5 has a distinct function, particularly in tissues where it is preferentially expressed.

The intestine provided a compelling setting to examine this question. CASP5 expression was concentrated in intestinal tract and appendix and was detected in epithelial cells as well as in some monocyte and macrophage populations. In colonic organoids, CASP5 expression exceeded that of CASP4, CASP1 and PYCARD when compared with macrophage patterns, whereas CASP4 showed broader distribution. Human colon and small-intestinal organoids expressed CASP5A, CASP5B and CASP5C, with approximate predicted sizes of 49.7, 43.2 and 33.3 kDa. CASP5B lacks part of the CARD region, and CASP5C lacks the CARD altogether. CASP5C was not explained as a cleavage product of CASP5A or CASP5B in siRNA experiments.

Here, the evidence supports an isoform-specific model in which CASP5C amplifies epithelial Wnt/beta-catenin signalling by enzymatically modifying APC-containing destruction complexes. The findings separate CASP5C from CASP5A and CASP5B, distinguish CASP5 from CASP4 in intestinal epithelial biology, and identify a mechanism by which a caspase-family protease may influence epithelial renewal without acting as the primary noncanonical inflammasome protease in the tested systems.

## Methods

Human colon and small-intestinal organoids were used to examine CASP5 isoform expression, inducibility and function. Expression patterns were compared with macrophage-associated inflammatory caspase components and with single-cell transcriptomic patterns across epithelial states. Stimulation conditions included Salmonella, interferon beta, interferon gamma and lipopolysaccharide.

BioID2 and co-immunoprecipitation were used to identify CASP5-associated pathways and test associations among CASP5 isoforms, Dishevelled proteins, AXIN1 and beta-catenin. Domain mapping assessed the DVL DEP domain and CASP5 catalytic domain. Wnt activity was measured using TOPFlash reporter assays in HEK293T cells, HCT116 cells and organoids, with and without WNT3A. CASP5 isoforms were compared with CASP1, CASP4 and engineered CARD-less mouse caspase 11 forms.

Organoid phenotypes were assessed by reporter activity, viability, size, Ki-67, EdU and differentiation-associated markers including CK20, ALPI and MUC2. Wnt withdrawal and re-addition experiments tested persistence and cell-cycle re-entry. Irradiated colonic organoids were used to examine induction of CASP5 isoforms and expression of stem-cell and Wnt-associated genes.

Mechanistic experiments focused on destruction-complex composition and APC cleavage. AXIN1-containing complexes were analysed after Wnt stimulation, beta-catenin ubiquitination was measured, and catalytic dependence was tested using CASP5C(C173A). APC cleavage was examined with predicted CASP5 sites, recombinant CASP5C, truncated APC substrates, APC(D556A) and APC fragments resembling cleavage products.

## Results

CASP5 showed intestinal epithelial enrichment and inducibility consistent with a role beyond canonical inflammatory-caspase responses. Human intestinal organoids expressed CASP5A, CASP5B and CASP5C. CASP5 increased after Salmonella infection, interferon beta and interferon gamma, whereas lipopolysaccharide alone had little effect in epithelium, consistent with low TLR4 expression.

Proximity mapping linked CASP5 to Wnt pathway components. BioID2 analysis identified DVL1, DVL2 and DVL3 near CASP5, and Wnt-related terms emerged from interactor analysis. Co-immunoprecipitation confirmed that CASP5 isoforms associated with DVL proteins. DVL2 complexes also contained AXIN1 and beta-catenin, placing CASP5 near machinery that controls beta-catenin stability. The interaction involved the DVL DEP domain and CASP5 catalytic domain, although direct binary binding was not fully proven.

Functional assays revealed a striking isoform specificity. CASP5C increased TOPFlash Wnt reporter activity in HEK293T and HCT116 cells, both in the presence and absence of WNT3A. CASP5A, CASP5B, CASP1 and CASP4 did not reproduce this effect. CASP5C also increased expression of Wnt-responsive genes including AXIN2 and TCF7 and promoted redistribution of beta-catenin into nuclear and cytosolic compartments. In contrast, CASP5A and CASP5B could compete with CASP5C for DVL2 and reduce the CASP5C-mediated Wnt response. CARD-less mouse caspase 11 forms did not reproduce the CASP5C effect, suggesting, without proving, that this activity may reflect a primate CASP5 specialization after gene duplication.

The same isoform specificity was observed in organoids. CASP5C, but not CASP5A or CASP5B, increased Wnt reporter activity. CASP5C increased viable cell numbers, produced organoids approximately 40% larger than controls, increased Ki-67-positive and EdU-positive cells, and reduced CK20-positive enterocytes. AXIN2 rose about threefold, TCF7 1.4-fold, MYC 1.3-fold, LGR5 1.2-fold and MKI67 2.4-fold, whereas ALPI and MUC2 fell by about 57% and 53%. CASP5C-expressing organoids also persisted longer after Wnt withdrawal and re-entered the cell cycle after Wnt was restored.

Injury-associated experiments further supported a link with repair programs. In irradiated colonic organoids, CASP5c transcript increased 42.4-fold within 24 hours, compared with 5.6-fold for CASP5a and 6.6-fold for CASP5b. LGR5, OLFM4, TCF7 and MYC then increased more rapidly in CASP5C-expressing organoids. These data indicate that CASP5C can potentiate repair-associated Wnt responses in vitro, without establishing sufficiency or necessity in the human intestine in vivo.

CASP5C altered destruction-complex composition in a manner consistent with beta-catenin stabilization. After Wnt stimulation, CASP5C reduced DVL2, beta-catenin, phospho-beta-catenin, APC and beta-TrCP in AXIN1-containing complexes and reduced beta-catenin ubiquitination. Catalytic activity was required, because CASP5C(C173A) lost reporter activation and beta-catenin effects. CASP5C had higher enzymatic activity than CASP5A or CASP5B, and removing the CARD from CASP5A or CASP5B increased enzymatic activity and Wnt reporter signalling.

APC emerged as a key substrate linking CASP5C activity to Wnt activation. Predicted CASP5 cleavage sites were concentrated largely in the N-terminal region of APC. CASP5C generated APC cleavage products, whereas CASP5A, CASP5B and CASP5C(C173A) did not, and recombinant CASP5C directly cleaved a truncated APC substrate in vitro. APC D556A removed the major cleavage products. In APC knockout HEK293T cells, wild-type APC allowed CASP5C to disrupt the complex and increase Wnt reporter activity more effectively than APC(D556A). APC fragments resembling cleavage products reduced beta-catenin in the destruction complex and increased reporter activity. D556 therefore appears important, but additional APC cleavage sites may contribute.

Cell-state analyses placed CASP5 isoforms in distinct epithelial contexts. CASP5 transcripts were nearly absent from LGR5-positive stem cells in one single-cell analysis, higher in transit-amplifying cells and highest in enterocytes. However, CASP5c showed a deeper crypt distribution and greater overlap with MKI67 and AXIN2 than CASP5a or CASP5b, whereas CASP5A and CASP5B were more luminal and more associated with differentiated CK20-positive cells. Pseudotime and CIBERSORTx analyses supported an association of CASP5c with early-lineage or transit-amplifying states and of CASP5a and CASP5b with mature or differentiating states. During differentiation after Wnt withdrawal, CASP5c peaked early with MKI67, whereas CASP5a and CASP5b increased later with differentiation markers.

Isoform-competition experiments supported the functional relevance of these expression patterns. Knockdown of CASP5a and CASP5b while preserving CASP5C increased Wnt reporter activity, organoid size, ATP levels, EdU incorporation and Ki-67 staining. When CASP5c was also knocked down, these effects declined. This result supports a competition model in which CASP5A and CASP5B restrain CASP5C partly by competing for DVL2, thereby limiting the ability of CASP5C to amplify Wnt signalling.

## Discussion

These findings define CASP5C as an epithelial Wnt amplifier rather than a redundant copy of CASP4 or mouse caspase 11. The distinction is important because CASP5 has often been considered through the lens of inflammatory caspase biology. In the tested systems, CASP4 was more consistent with the noncanonical cytosolic-LPS response, whereas CASP5C acted through a separate pathway involving DVL-associated destruction complexes and APC cleavage. CASP5C therefore expands the functional range of inflammatory caspase-family proteins into epithelial homeostasis and regeneration-associated signalling.

The proposed mechanism is coherent with several independent observations. CASP5 isoforms localize near DVL proteins, CASP5C uniquely activates Wnt reporters, catalytic inactivation abolishes the effect, CASP5C reduces beta-catenin ubiquitination, and APC cleavage products phenocopy aspects of pathway activation. APC D556 contributes substantially to the cleavage pattern and functional output, but the data do not require D556 to be the only relevant site. A restrained interpretation is that CASP5C cleaves APC in a way that weakens destruction-complex function and permits beta-catenin-dependent transcription, with D556 as a major contributor.

The longer CASP5 isoforms appear to have a different role. CASP5A and CASP5B did not activate Wnt signalling in the same way as CASP5C and could restrain CASP5C by competing for DVL2. Their more differentiated epithelial distribution suggests that isoform balance may help tune Wnt signalling as cells move from proliferative crypt compartments toward mature luminal states. In this model, CASP5c supports early-lineage or transit-amplifying programs, whereas CASP5a and CASP5b provide a counterweight during differentiation.

The disease-associated observations are intriguing but should be interpreted cautiously. CASP5 and CASP4 were increased in ulcerative colitis datasets while retaining cell-type patterns. CASP5 mutations occurred in about 3% of colon or rectal cancers, similar to AXIN1, and tended to co-occur with Wnt-pathway mutations while being mutually exclusive with APC mutations. In MSI-high colorectal cancer, CASP5 mutations were reported more often than APC in one comparison, approximately 68% versus 17%. These associations do not show that CASP5C causes inflammatory bowel disease or cancer, nor do they validate CASP5C as a therapeutic target.

Overall, the evidence supports an isoform-specific model in which CASP5C couples epithelial stress and repair contexts to Wnt/beta-catenin amplification through APC cleavage. The work clarifies why CASP5 may have remained difficult to place within conventional inflammasome frameworks and suggests that human CASP5 diversification produced a CARD-less isoform with a specialized epithelial signalling function. Future work will need to determine how CASP5C activity is regulated in vivo, whether APC cleavage occurs during physiological repair, and how isoform balance is altered in chronic inflammation and neoplasia.
### Granite

# CASP5C amplifies epithelial Wnt signalling through APC cleavage in human intestinal organoids

## Abstract

Inflammatory caspases are best known as mediators of innate immune responses, yet the functions of human CASP5 have remained less defined than those of CASP4 and mouse caspase 11. Here we describe a noncanonical role for a CARD-less CASP5 isoform, CASP5C, in human intestinal epithelial Wnt signalling. Human intestinal organoids expressed CASP5A, CASP5B and CASP5C, with CASP5 enriched in intestinal epithelial contexts and inducible by infection-associated and interferon signals. Proximity labelling and co-immunoprecipitation placed CASP5 isoforms near dishevelled proteins DVL1, DVL2 and DVL3. Functional assays showed that CASP5C, but not CASP5A, CASP5B, CASP1 or CASP4, increased Wnt reporter activity, promoted beta-catenin redistribution, and induced Wnt target genes. In colonic organoids, CASP5C increased organoid size, viability and proliferation while reducing differentiation markers. Mechanistically, CASP5C required catalytic activity and cleaved APC, with D556 contributing to major cleavage products but not excluding additional sites. CASP5A and CASP5B competed with CASP5C for DVL2 and restrained its effect. These findings identify CASP5C as an epithelial amplifier of Wnt signalling and suggest that alternative CASP5 isoforms partition inflammatory caspase family functions in the human intestine.

## Introduction

Human inflammatory caspases participate in host defence and inflammatory signalling, but individual family members have not been functionally resolved to the same extent. CASP4 is closely related to mouse caspase 11 and acts as a principal human mediator of noncanonical inflammasome responses to cytosolic lipopolysaccharide and intracellular bacteria in the tested epithelial and macrophage systems. By contrast, CASP5 did not carry this dominant function in these assays, raising the possibility that CASP5 has diverged toward a distinct role.

The intestine is a plausible setting for such specialization. CASP5 expression is concentrated in the intestinal tract and appendix and is detected in epithelial cells as well as selected monocyte and macrophage populations. In human colonic organoids, CASP5 expression exceeded that of CASP4, CASP1 and PYCARD when compared with macrophages, whereas CASP4 showed broader expression. These patterns suggested that CASP5 might have a cell-state-specific epithelial function rather than serving only as a duplicate of CASP4.

Intestinal epithelial renewal depends on Wnt/beta-catenin signalling. Wnt activity maintains stem and proliferative compartments, supports repair, and regulates the balance between renewal and differentiation. Dishevelled proteins connect receptor-proximal Wnt events to downstream beta-catenin control, whereas APC is a scaffold and tumour suppressor within the beta-catenin destruction complex.

Here we investigate whether CASP5 isoforms contribute to intestinal epithelial signalling. The data identify CASP5C, a CARD-less isoform, as a selective enhancer of Wnt/beta-catenin activity. CASP5C acts through its catalytic domain, associates with DVL-containing complexes, and cleaves APC to weaken beta-catenin destruction complex assembly. CASP5A and CASP5B instead can restrain CASP5C, supporting an isoform competition model.

## Methods

Human intestinal expression patterns were assessed across tissue, organoid and single-cell datasets. Human colonic and small-intestinal organoids were used to examine CASP5 isoform expression and function. CASP5A, CASP5B and CASP5C corresponded approximately to 49.7 kDa, 43.2 kDa and 33.3 kDa proteins. CASP5B lacked part of the CARD region, whereas CASP5C lacked the CARD domain. Small interfering RNA experiments distinguished CASP5C from a cleavage product of CASP5A or CASP5B.

Inducible expression was examined after Salmonella exposure and interferon stimulation. CASP5-interacting proteins were identified by BioID2 proximity labelling in human colonic organoids and by co-immunoprecipitation of CASP5 isoforms with DVL proteins. DVL2-containing complexes were further assessed for AXIN1 and beta-catenin association.

Wnt signalling was measured with TOPFlash reporter assays in HEK293T, HCT116 and intestinal organoid systems, with and without WNT3A. CASP5 isoforms were compared with CASP1 and CASP4. Wnt target gene expression, beta-catenin localization, organoid viability, organoid size, Ki-67 staining, EdU incorporation, ATP content and differentiation markers were used as readouts. Catalytic dependence was tested with CASP5C(C173A). CARD deletion and mouse caspase 11 constructs evaluated structural and species-related specificity.

Mechanistic experiments examined AXIN1-containing destruction complexes, beta-catenin ubiquitination and APC cleavage. Predicted CASP5 cleavage sites in APC were tested using recombinant CASP5C cleavage of truncated APC in vitro, APC knockout HEK293T rescue, APC(D556A), and APC fragments resembling cleavage products. Disease-associated observations from ulcerative colitis and colorectal cancer datasets were treated as associations, not causal evidence.

## Results

CASP5 showed a distinctive intestinal epithelial profile. CASP5 expression was enriched in intestinal tract and appendix, and human intestinal organoids expressed CASP5A, CASP5B and CASP5C. CASP5A retained the canonical architecture, CASP5B lacked part of the CARD, and CASP5C lacked the CARD entirely. CASP5C was not explained by proteolytic processing of longer isoforms, because isoform-targeted knockdown experiments supported its identity as a transcript-derived product.

CASP5 expression responded to microbial and cytokine cues in organoids. Salmonella, interferon-beta and interferon-gamma increased CASP5, whereas lipopolysaccharide alone produced little induction in epithelial cells, consistent with limited epithelial TLR4 responsiveness. These observations placed CASP5 at the intersection of epithelial state and inflammatory stimulation, but did not support assigning CASP5 the same primary cytosolic lipopolysaccharide-sensing role as CASP4.

BioID2 proximity labelling in human colonic organoids identified DVL1, DVL2 and DVL3 near CASP5, and Wnt-related terms were enriched among candidate interactors. Co-immunoprecipitation confirmed association of CASP5 isoforms with DVL proteins. DVL2 complexes also contained AXIN1 and beta-catenin, placing CASP5 near machinery that regulates beta-catenin stability. The interaction involved the DVL DEP domain and the CASP5 catalytic domain. These data support close physical association, but do not prove direct binary interaction.

Functional testing separated CASP5C from the other isoforms. CASP5C increased TOPFlash reporter activity in HEK293T and HCT116 cells, both with and without WNT3A. CASP5A, CASP5B, CASP1 and CASP4 did not produce the same response. CASP5C also increased AXIN2 and TCF7 expression and redistributed beta-catenin into cytosolic and nuclear pools. CASP5A and CASP5B competed with CASP5C for DVL2 binding and reduced CASP5C-driven Wnt activation. CARD-less mouse caspase 11 constructs did not reproduce the Wnt effect, suggesting a possible primate CASP5 specialization after gene duplication.

In human intestinal organoids, CASP5C again selectively enhanced Wnt activity. CASP5C, but not CASP5A or CASP5B, increased Wnt reporter signalling. CASP5C-expressing colonic organoids contained more viable cells, were approximately 40% larger, and showed increased Ki-67 and EdU positivity. Differentiated enterocyte features were reduced, including fewer CK20-positive cells. CASP5C increased AXIN2 by about threefold, TCF7 by 1.4-fold, MYC by 1.3-fold, LGR5 by 1.2-fold and MKI67 by 2.4-fold, while ALPI and MUC2 decreased by approximately 57% and 53%.

CASP5C also altered organoid behaviour during Wnt limitation and recovery. CASP5C-expressing organoids persisted longer after Wnt withdrawal and re-entered the cell cycle more readily when Wnt was restored. After irradiation of human colonic organoids, CASP5c transcript increased 42.4-fold within 24 hours, compared with 5.6-fold for CASP5a and 6.6-fold for CASP5b. LGR5, OLFM4, TCF7 and MYC then rose more rapidly in CASP5C-expressing organoids. These data suggest an organoid recovery programme, but do not establish repair efficacy in the human body.

Single-cell and differentiation analyses suggested that CASP5 isoforms occupy distinct epithelial states. In one single-cell analysis, total CASP5 transcripts were nearly absent in LGR5-positive stem cells, higher in transit-amplifying cells and highest in enterocytes. Isoform-resolved patterns placed CASP5c deeper in crypt regions, where it overlapped more with MKI67 and AXIN2 than did CASP5a or CASP5b. CASP5A and CASP5B were more luminal and associated with differentiated or CK20-positive states. Pseudotime and CIBERSORTx analyses similarly linked CASP5c with early-lineage or transit-amplifying compartments, whereas CASP5a and CASP5b aligned with mature or differentiating states.

Perturbation experiments supported an isoform competition model. Knockdown of CASP5a and CASP5b while retaining CASP5C increased Wnt reporter activity, organoid size, ATP content, EdU incorporation and Ki-67 positivity. When CASP5c was also depleted, these effects decreased. Thus, the longer isoforms can restrain CASP5C, at least partly by competing for DVL2-containing complexes.

CASP5C required catalytic activity to activate Wnt signalling. The catalytic mutant CASP5C(C173A) lost reporter activation and beta-catenin effects. CASP5C showed higher enzymatic activity than CASP5A and CASP5B, and CARD removal from CASP5A or CASP5B increased activity and conferred stronger Wnt reporter signalling.

Mechanistically, CASP5C disrupted beta-catenin destruction complex organization after Wnt stimulation. CASP5C reduced DVL2, beta-catenin, phospho-beta-catenin, APC and beta-TrCP in AXIN1-containing complexes and decreased beta-catenin ubiquitination. APC emerged as a relevant substrate. CASP5C generated APC cleavage products, whereas CASP5A, CASP5B and CASP5C(C173A) did not. Recombinant CASP5C directly cleaved truncated APC in vitro. Mutation of APC D556 removed the major cleavage products, indicating that D556 is a primary cleavage site. However, additional APC sites may also contribute. In APC knockout HEK293T cells, wild-type APC restored the ability of CASP5C to disrupt the complex and increase Wnt reporter activity, whereas APC(D556A) weakened this effect. APC fragments resembling cleavage products reduced beta-catenin in the destruction complex and increased reporter activity.

Disease datasets provided context but not proof of pathogenesis. CASP5 and CASP4 were increased in ulcerative colitis datasets while retaining their cell-type patterns. CASP5 mutations occurred in approximately 3% of colon or rectal cancers, similar to AXIN1. CASP5 mutations tended to co-occur with Wnt-pathway mutations but were mutually exclusive with APC mutations. In microsatellite instability-high colorectal cancer, CASP5 mutations were reported more often than APC mutations in one comparison, approximately 68% versus 17%. These associations do not show that CASP5C causes inflammatory bowel disease, ulcerative colitis or colorectal cancer, nor do they establish CASP5C as a validated therapeutic target.

## Discussion

These findings define CASP5C as a selective enhancer of Wnt/beta-catenin signalling in human intestinal epithelial models. The activity is isoform specific: CASP5C promotes Wnt reporter activity, beta-catenin redistribution, Wnt target gene expression and organoid proliferation, whereas CASP5A and CASP5B do not. The longer isoforms can oppose CASP5C by competing for DVL2, providing a mechanism by which alternative CASP5 products tune epithelial Wnt output.

The work also separates CASP5 from CASP4 functionally. CASP4 more closely resembles mouse caspase 11 in sequence, phylogeny and tested noncanonical inflammasome activity. CASP5, especially CASP5C, instead shows an epithelial Wnt-regulatory function, arguing against simple redundancy with CASP4.

The proposed mechanism connects CASP5C catalytic activity to APC cleavage. By cleaving APC, CASP5C weakens assembly or function of the beta-catenin destruction complex, reduces beta-catenin ubiquitination and increases downstream transcription. D556 is an important APC cleavage site, but the evidence leaves room for additional sites and for other substrate contributions. The interaction with DVL-containing complexes may localize CASP5C to the relevant signalling machinery and provide specificity.

Several limitations temper the interpretation. Much of the functional evidence comes from organoids and engineered cell systems, which do not establish organism-level repair, inflammation or cancer outcomes. The physical interaction data support close proximity and co-complex formation, but direct binding remains incompletely proven. Disease associations in ulcerative colitis and colorectal cancer are hypothesis-generating rather than causal.

Overall, the data reveal an unexpected link between an inflammatory caspase-family isoform and epithelial Wnt control. CASP5C appears to amplify Wnt signalling during proliferative or recovery-associated states, while CASP5A and CASP5B align with differentiated compartments and can restrain CASP5C activity. This isoform-resolved view provides a framework for studying how intestinal epithelial cells integrate inflammatory cues with renewal programmes.
### Ember

# Caspase 5c amplifies Wnt signalling through APC cleavage in human intestinal
epithelium

## Abstract

Inflammatory caspases shape host defence.
Human caspase 5 is related to caspase 4 and mouse caspase 11, but its main
cellular function has remained unclear.
Here we show that the short caspase 5 isoform, caspase 5c, acts in human
intestinal epithelial cells as an enhancer of Wnt and beta-catenin signalling.
Caspase 5 was enriched in intestinal tissues and epithelial organoids.
Three isoforms were detected: caspase 5a, caspase 5b and caspase 5c.
Caspase 5c lacked the caspase activation and recruitment domain and was not a
cleavage product of the longer isoforms.
Proximity labelling and co-immunoprecipitation linked caspase 5 isoforms to
the Dishevelled proteins DVL1, DVL2 and DVL3.
In reporter assays and human intestinal organoids, caspase 5c, but not
caspase 5a, caspase 5b, caspase 1 or caspase 4, increased Wnt pathway output.
Caspase 5c promoted beta-catenin accumulation outside the destruction complex,
increased proliferative and stem-associated markers, and reduced markers of
enterocyte and secretory differentiation.
Mechanistically, caspase 5c cleaved the Wnt regulator APC, with D556 acting as
a major cleavage site.
Catalytic inactivation of caspase 5c or mutation of APC D556 weakened these
effects, although additional APC sites may contribute.
These findings identify a noncanonical epithelial function for caspase 5c and
suggest that CASP5 isoform balance can tune intestinal Wnt responses.

## Introduction

Inflammatory caspases are proteases that connect microbial sensing to
cellular responses.
Human caspase 4 and caspase 5 are mouse caspase 11 paralogues.
Caspase 4 has stronger sequence and phylogenetic similarity to mouse caspase
11 and is the dominant mediator of the tested noncanonical inflammasome
response to cytosolic lipopolysaccharide and bacteria.
In human intestinal epithelial cells and macrophages, caspase 5 did not serve
as the main executor of that response.
This difference suggested that caspase 5 has a separate function.

CASP5 expression was concentrated in the intestinal tract and appendix.
It was detected in epithelial cells and in subsets of monocytes and
macrophages.
In colonic organoids, CASP5 expression exceeded CASP4, CASP1 and PYCARD when
compared with macrophages, whereas CASP4 showed broader expression.
Human colon and small-intestinal organoids expressed three CASP5 isoforms.
The predicted products were caspase 5a, caspase 5b and caspase 5c, with
approximate sizes of 49.7, 43.2 and 33.3 kDa.
Caspase 5b lacks part of the caspase activation and recruitment domain, and
caspase 5c lacks this domain.
Small interfering RNA experiments indicated that caspase 5c was not simply a
processed fragment of caspase 5a or caspase 5b.

Wnt and beta-catenin signalling controls intestinal development, epithelial
repair, stem-cell renewal and differentiation.
Dishevelled proteins transmit receptor-proximal Wnt signals to downstream
control of beta-catenin.
APC is a scaffold and tumour suppressor in the beta-catenin destruction
complex.
Because these components define intestinal epithelial renewal, we examined
whether caspase 5 participates in Wnt control.

## Results

### Caspase 5 isoforms associate with Dishevelled proteins

CASP5 expression increased in human intestinal organoids after Salmonella
infection and after interferon beta or interferon gamma treatment.
Lipopolysaccharide alone induced little epithelial CASP5 expression, consistent
with low TLR4 expression.
To identify proteins near caspase 5 in epithelial cells, BioID2 proximity
labelling was performed in human colonic organoids.
This analysis recovered DVL1, DVL2 and DVL3 near caspase 5 and enriched
Wnt-related terms.

Co-immunoprecipitation confirmed that caspase 5 isoforms associated with DVL1,
DVL2 and DVL3.
DVL2 complexes also contained AXIN1 and beta-catenin.
Mapping experiments implicated the DVL DEP domain and the caspase 5 catalytic
domain in this interaction.
These data support close association between caspase 5 and Wnt machinery,
although they do not prove a direct binary interaction.

### Caspase 5c selectively activates Wnt signalling

TOPFlash reporter assays showed that caspase 5c increased Wnt transcriptional
activity in HEK293T and HCT116 cells.
This effect occurred both in the presence and absence of WNT3A.
Caspase 5a, caspase 5b, caspase 1 and caspase 4 did not produce the same
response.
Caspase 5c also increased AXIN2 and TCF7 expression and shifted beta-catenin
towards cytosolic and nuclear pools.

The effect was isoform-specific rather than a general property of inflammatory
caspases.
CARD-less mouse caspase 11 forms did not reproduce the Wnt reporter response.
This result is consistent with a primate CASP5 specialisation, although broader
evolutionary testing would be needed to establish that model.
Caspase 5a and caspase 5b could compete with caspase 5c for DVL2 binding and
reduced the caspase 5c-dependent reporter effect.
Thus, the longer isoforms did not promote Wnt output in these assays and could
instead restrain the activity of caspase 5c.

### Caspase 5c supports organoid growth and proliferative programmes

Human intestinal organoids provided a model to test epithelial consequences of
CASP5 isoform expression.
Caspase 5c, but not caspase 5a or caspase 5b, increased Wnt reporter activity
in organoids.
Caspase 5c expression increased viable cell number, generated organoids about
40% larger than controls, and increased Ki-67-positive and EdU-positive cells.
It also reduced CK20-positive enterocytes.

Transcriptional changes matched the reporter and growth phenotypes.
In colonic organoids, caspase 5c increased AXIN2 about three-fold, TCF7
1.4-fold, MYC 1.3-fold, LGR5 1.2-fold and MKI67 2.4-fold.
The differentiation markers ALPI and MUC2 decreased by about 57% and 53%,
respectively.
Caspase 5c-expressing organoids also maintained growth longer after Wnt
withdrawal and re-entered the cell cycle more efficiently after Wnt was
restored.
These findings support regenerative capacity in organoids, but they do not
prove improved repair in the human intestine.

Irradiated human colonic organoids further linked caspase 5c to epithelial
stress responses.
Within 24 h after irradiation, CASP5c transcript increased 42.4-fold, whereas
CASP5a and CASP5b increased 5.6-fold and 6.6-fold.
After this induction, LGR5, OLFM4, TCF7 and MYC rose faster in
caspase 5c-expressing organoids.
These data place caspase 5c upstream of a Wnt-associated recovery programme in
damaged organoids.

### Caspase 5c cleaves APC to remodel the destruction complex

The catalytic activity of caspase 5c was required for Wnt activation.
The C173A catalytic mutant lost reporter activity and no longer promoted the
beta-catenin changes seen with wild-type caspase 5c.
Caspase 5c showed higher enzymatic activity than caspase 5a or caspase 5b.
Removing the caspase activation and recruitment domain from caspase 5a or
caspase 5b increased their activity and conferred stronger Wnt reporter
signalling.
These results suggest that the absence of the recruitment domain contributes to
the catalytic and signalling properties of caspase 5c.

Analysis of AXIN1-containing complexes showed that caspase 5c altered the
beta-catenin destruction complex after Wnt stimulation.
It reduced DVL2, beta-catenin, phosphorylated beta-catenin, APC and beta-TrCP
in these complexes.
It also reduced beta-catenin ubiquitination.
Together these changes are consistent with impaired destruction-complex
retention and degradation of beta-catenin.

APC emerged as a direct substrate candidate.
Predicted caspase 5 cleavage sites were concentrated in the N-terminal region
of APC.
Caspase 5c generated APC cleavage products in cells, whereas caspase 5a,
caspase 5b and caspase 5c(C173A) did not.
Recombinant caspase 5c directly cleaved a truncated APC substrate in vitro.
Mutation of APC D556 removed the major cleavage products.

Functional tests supported APC cleavage.
In APC-knockout HEK293T cells, reintroduction of wild-type APC allowed caspase
5c to disrupt the destruction complex and increase Wnt reporter activity.
The APC(D556A) mutant weakened this response.
APC fragments resembling caspase 5c cleavage products reduced beta-catenin in
the destruction complex and increased reporter activity.
D556 is therefore a primary site for this mechanism, but the data do not
exclude contributions from other APC cleavage sites.

### CASP5 isoform patterns distinguish epithelial states

Single-cell and differentiation analyses showed non-uniform CASP5 isoform
patterns across the intestinal epithelial lineage.
CASP5 transcripts were nearly absent from LGR5-positive stem cells in one
single-cell analysis.
They were higher in transit-amplifying cells and highest in enterocytes.
CASP5c was enriched deeper in crypt regions and overlapped more with MKI67 and
AXIN2 than CASP5a or CASP5b.
CASP5a and CASP5b were more luminal and associated with CK20-positive cells.
Pseudotime analysis and CIBERSORTx estimates supported the same division:
CASP5c tracked with early-lineage or transit-amplifying states, whereas
CASP5a and CASP5b tracked with mature or differentiating states.
During organoid differentiation after Wnt withdrawal, CASP5c peaked early with
MKI67, and CASP5a and CASP5b increased later with differentiation markers.

Isoform knockdown experiments tested whether this pattern had functional
consequences.
Knockdown of CASP5a and CASP5b while retaining CASP5c increased Wnt reporter
activity, organoid size, ATP content, EdU incorporation and Ki-67 staining.
When CASP5c was also knocked down, these effects returned towards baseline.
These observations support a competition model in which caspase 5a and
caspase 5b limit caspase 5c by competing for DVL2-associated complexes.

## Discussion

This study identifies caspase 5c as an epithelial modulator of Wnt and
beta-catenin signalling.
The activity differs from caspase 4 in noncanonical inflammasome responses.
It also differs among CASP5 isoforms.
Caspase 5c amplified Wnt output, whereas caspase 5a and caspase 5b did not and
could restrain caspase 5c by competing for DVL2-associated complexes.
This isoform specificity is central to the model and argues against treating
CASP5 as a single functional unit.

The mechanistic data support a pathway in which caspase 5c associates with
Dishevelled-containing complexes, cleaves APC and reduces beta-catenin
engagement with the destruction machinery.
The result is increased beta-catenin availability and transcriptional activity.
The requirement for the catalytic cysteine, the direct cleavage of APC in
vitro and the weakened response of APC(D556A) together support this mechanism.
At the same time, the remaining activity with APC(D556A) indicates that other
cleavage sites or associated mechanisms may contribute.

The organoid findings connect this biochemical mechanism to epithelial
phenotypes.
Caspase 5c increased Wnt target genes, proliferation markers, organoid size and
recovery-associated transcription after irradiation.
It reduced differentiation markers and allowed organoids to better tolerate
periods without Wnt.
These data fit a role for caspase 5c in maintaining or reactivating a
proliferative epithelial programme.
The evidence is strongest in organoid and cell models.
Further work is needed to test how this pathway acts in human tissue in vivo.

Disease associations provide useful context but require caution.
CASP5 and CASP4 were increased in ulcerative colitis datasets while retaining
their cell-type expression patterns.
CASP5 mutations appeared in about 3% of colon or rectal cancers, tended to
co-occur with Wnt-pathway mutations, and were reported as mutually exclusive
with APC mutations.
In microsatellite instability-high colorectal cancer, CASP5 mutations were
reported more often than APC mutations in one comparison, at about 68% versus
17%.
These observations do not establish causality, disease initiation or treatment
value.
Future studies should determine how inflammation, interferon signalling,
microbial exposure and epithelial damage regulate CASP5 isoform choice.
They should also define whether CASP5c activity helps repair, promotes
dysplasia under particular genetic backgrounds, or does both depending on
context.

Overall, these results assign caspase 5c a role outside classical inflammatory
caspase signalling.
By cleaving APC and amplifying Wnt output, caspase 5c provides a mechanism by
which an inflammatory caspase-family protease can influence intestinal
epithelial renewal.
The balance between caspase 5c and the longer CASP5 isoforms may be an
important control point for Wnt responsiveness in human intestinal epithelium.
---

2026-05-01T12:37:05.165404Z  WARN codex_analytics::client: events failed with status 403 Forbidden: <html>
  <head>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
    <style global>body{font-family:Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif}.container{align-items:center;display:flex;flex-direction:column;gap:2rem;height:100%;justify-content:center;width:100%}@keyframes enlarge-appear{0%{opacity:0;transform:scale(75%) rotate(-90deg)}to{opacity:1;transform:scale(100%) rotate(0deg)}}.logo{color:#8e8ea0}.scale-appear{animation:enlarge-appear .4s ease-out}@media (min-width:768px){.scale-appear{height:48px;width:48px}}.data:empty{display:none}.data{border-radius:5px;color:#8e8ea0;text-align:center}@media (prefers-color-scheme:dark){body{background-color:#343541}.logo{color:#acacbe}}</style>
  <meta http-equiv="refresh" content="360"></head>
  <body>
    <div class="container">
      <div class="logo">
        <svg
          width="41"
          height="41"
          viewBox="0 0 41 41"
          fill="none"
          xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"
          strokeWidth="2"
          class="scale-appear"
        >
          <path
            d="M37.5324 16.8707C37.9808 15.5241 38.1363 14.0974 37.9886 12.6859C37.8409 11.2744 37.3934 9.91076 36.676 8.68622C35.6126 6.83404 33.9882 5.3676 32.0373 4.4985C30.0864 3.62941 27.9098 3.40259 25.8215 3.85078C24.8796 2.7893 23.7219 1.94125 22.4257 1.36341C21.1295 0.785575 19.7249 0.491269 18.3058 0.500197C16.1708 0.495044 14.0893 1.16803 12.3614 2.42214C10.6335 3.67624 9.34853 5.44666 8.6917 7.47815C7.30085 7.76286 5.98686 8.3414 4.8377 9.17505C3.68854 10.0087 2.73073 11.0782 2.02839 12.312C0.956464 14.1591 0.498905 16.2988 0.721698 18.4228C0.944492 20.5467 1.83612 22.5449 3.268 24.1293C2.81966 25.4759 2.66413 26.9026 2.81182 28.3141C2.95951 29.7256 3.40701 31.0892 4.12437 32.3138C5.18791 34.1659 6.8123 35.6322 8.76321 36.5013C10.7141 37.3704 12.8907 37.5973 14.9789 37.1492C15.9208 38.2107 17.0786 39.0587 18.3747 39.6366C19.6709 40.2144 21.0755 40.5087 22.4946 40.4998C24.6307 40.5054 26.7133 39.8321 28.4418 38.5772C30.1704 37.3223 31.4556 35.5506 32.1119 33.5179C33.5027 33.2332 34.8167 32.6547 35.9659 31.821C37.115 30.9874 38.0728 29.9178 38.7752 28.684C39.8458 26.8371 40.3023 24.6979 40.0789 22.5748C39.8556 20.4517 38.9639 18.4544 37.5324 16.8707ZM22.4978 37.8849C20.7443 37.8874 19.0459 37.2733 17.6994 36.1501C17.7601 36.117 17.8666 36.0586 17.936 36.0161L25.9004 31.4156C26.1003 31.3019 26.2663 31.137 26.3813 30.9378C26.4964 30.7386 26.5563 30.5124 26.5549 30.2825V19.0542L29.9213 20.998C29.9389 21.0068 29.9541 21.0198 29.9656 21.0359C29.977 21.052 29.9842 21.0707 29.9867 21.0902V30.3889C29.9842 32.375 29.1946 34.2791 27.7909 35.6841C26.3872 37.0892 24.4838 37.8806 22.4978 37.8849ZM6.39227 31.0064C5.51397 29.4888 5.19742 27.7107 5.49804 25.9832C5.55718 26.0187 5.66048 26.0818 5.73461 26.1244L13.699 30.7248C13.8975 30.8408 14.1233 30.902 14.3532 30.902C14.583 30.902 14.8088 30.8408 15.0073 30.7248L24.731 25.1103V28.9979C24.7321 29.0177 24.7283 29.0376 24.7199 29.0556C24.7115 29.0736 24.6988 29.0893 24.6829 29.1012L16.6317 33.7497C14.9096 34.7416 12.8643 35.0097 10.9447 34.4954C9.02506 33.9811 7.38785 32.7263 6.39227 31.0064ZM4.29707 13.6194C5.17156 12.0998 6.55279 10.9364 8.19885 10.3327C8.19885 10.4013 8.19491 10.5228 8.19491 10.6071V19.808C8.19351 20.0378 8.25334 20.2638 8.36823 20.4629C8.48312 20.6619 8.64893 20.8267 8.84863 20.9404L18.5723 26.5542L15.206 28.4979C15.1894 28.5089 15.1703 28.5155 15.1505 28.5173C15.1307 28.5191 15.1107 28.516 15.0924 28.5082L7.04046 23.8557C5.32135 22.8601 4.06716 21.2235 3.55289 19.3046C3.03862 17.3858 3.30624 15.3413 4.29707 13.6194ZM31.955 20.0556L22.2312 14.4411L25.5976 12.4981C25.6142 12.4872 25.6333 12.4805 25.6531 12.4787C25.6729 12.4769 25.6928 12.4801 25.7111 12.4879L33.7631 17.1364C34.9967 17.849 36.0017 18.8982 36.6606 20.1613C37.3194 21.4244 37.6047 22.849 37.4832 24.2684C37.3617 25.6878 36.8382 27.0432 35.9743 28.1759C35.1103 29.3086 33.9415 30.1717 32.6047 30.6641C32.6047 30.5947 32.6047 30.4733 32.6047 30.3889V21.188C32.6066 20.9586 32.5474 20.7328 32.4332 20.5338C32.319 20.3348 32.154 20.1698 31.955 20.0556ZM35.3055 15.0128C35.2464 14.9765 35.1431 14.9142 35.069 14.8717L27.1045 10.2712C26.906 10.1554 26.6803 10.0943 26.4504 10.0943C26.2206 10.0943 25.9948 10.1554 25.7963 10.2712L16.0726 15.8858V11.9982C16.0715 11.9783 16.0753 11.9585 16.0837 11.9405C16.0921 11.9225 16.1048 11.9068 16.1207 11.8949L24.1719 7.25025C25.4053 6.53903 26.8158 6.19376 28.2383 6.25482C29.6608 6.31589 31.0364 6.78077 32.2044 7.59508C33.3723 8.40939 34.2842 9.53945 34.8334 10.8531C35.3826 12.1667 35.5464 13.6095 35.3055 15.0128ZM14.2424 21.9419L10.8752 19.9981C10.8576 19.9893 10.8423 19.9763 10.8309 19.9602C10.8195 19.9441 10.8122 19.9254 10.8098 19.9058V10.6071C10.8107 9.18295 11.2173 7.78848 11.9819 6.58696C12.7466 5.38544 13.8377 4.42659 15.1275 3.82264C16.4173 3.21869 17.8524 2.99464 19.2649 3.1767C20.6775 3.35876 22.0089 3.93941 23.1034 4.85067C23.0427 4.88379 22.937 4.94215 22.8668 4.98473L14.9024 9.58517C14.7025 9.69878 14.5366 9.86356 14.4215 10.0626C14.3065 10.2616 14.2466 10.4877 14.2479 10.7175L14.2424 21.9419ZM16.071 17.9991L20.4018 15.4978L24.7325 17.9975V22.9985L20.4018 25.4983L16.071 22.9985V17.9991Z"
            fill="currentColor"
          />
        </svg>
      </div>
      <div class="data"><div class="main-wrapper" role="main"><div class="main-content"><noscript><div class="h2"><span id="challenge-error-text">Enable JavaScript and cookies to continue</span></div></noscript></div></div><script>(function(){window._cf_chl_opt = {cFPWv: 'b',cH: '_fkH9XatfeU8iki_OQIDpCEJ_sPHz6kHbwTiTbyJXE8-1777639025-1.2.1.1-x3rQ4IpKWCy8Y46BKc2GSuQc57h1SelqLbnnHf65vR9zOIKl1Ke66dPAtL85zH91',cITimeS: '1777639025',cRay: '9f4ed5e3bca8e9db',cTplB: '0',cTplC:1,cTplO:0,cTplV:5,cType: 'managed',cUPMDTk:"/backend-api/codex/analytics-events/events?__cf_chl_tk=V9U3y_bv8IXd0RbIzXQc1CnldWaTc8KLoSh2SM2lqcU-1777639025-1.0.1.1-OZmxWXST9cTxdROrp67DI46lT7CJOlvJvMCoB0pW5Jc",cvId: '3',cZone: 'chatgpt.com',fa:"/backend-api/codex/analytics-events/events?__cf_chl_f_tk=V9U3y_bv8IXd0RbIzXQc1CnldWaTc8KLoSh2SM2lqcU-1777639025-1.0.1.1-OZmxWXST9cTxdROrp67DI46lT7CJOlvJvMCoB0pW5Jc",md: 'SF7qPv81l5lmoW.XSrlNcqUzHfrr1giZXfyyEMMJC_s-1777639025-1.2.1.1-drWPS4uJToUT4G5Xn6z54sBslNkhH5qrp0cGhRbNBOfPI8jjbR8SjYxN1fvSonrBQk.pWjIAknObCes0RnUxyitBjlOoOQVr1RkFEwgqDzqdM02f2QA4jnw1jcsd0tggGpmrOOq9qux0M763CkYtKsNWLRb2m4su2obmX721Ecp88BoqweJhlwvSTGZpPDt3QyVKhBemhwiiZ467uzUp0AbaWqqKc1lR7zFO3AYBk2ilVaQ_n03jXXZlEiG9bwKCulsbR9MJ1EpORhE.f8GH4ShN2Aahuo8OWbE7uRuPloIHGaY3nG1OWD9V4qvIm2mAJP2hgaty7WFzDbxyCJjkY11k2OqrxmxMVI7JDwlW7PU4RxHpY_eeL1j0RX9UPx.lrJt9fp2AZvRhkB5nAMkmKu.PrHAAJPjGGXTnPw5crE6YHBYFzlWavtC6JATkkw04bVumDeC_nGWbMv42GAVimJtDZl32OM74v4Fn6pmEF4zYj8XrYRFgJXz8CLsCvecJbxWhBxy5uzjzzfslfOI4AIVqlgUpXJqphlsPbOMRRTx1jQ7xz6SuIOzGcQlUmZNJgiSowmxFp93zTmMu_gpmtzl481GeWNNExU9DFbKcQAyQEK5kwldCWoaLEoWI3wjEBvrm7HraS2.2.CSwDDA7fGLERUm16NsfYewShofJHhFoQ7UeBMXa8yhk6yi3lAghMw1YYf6axs61xrgHPUx1.mRhKEx0DZeQNHhv87Hh6J_76ej.9eVC2HMVkUEqSFvGd.5dwapRH.c0VvDoFbrgUXbh_EXmykz8dmn.o3QRd4P.bIaOw37pILfZSJXV3fcowZiof_7SqLAfBxbLk4ujOqFwpW2z8.UQpmilyDRqvLxrY2Tu1t2_s2gOw3BjTI9eVUMT9nYiBQXHJLbuaMyC9YfiRNzBeZOV0aWL1olW0JJGsowWnZI2RrTDWaGLjK2c2g0tRf9pU6eFvAH_N3VReJoMbZL.qjQcZ3tMlOmE3vFOx02JyDB9Ef_OOkl9jhm8NAUAuyhLBp.hKu_ZmXSg9qwGvwiTMQNM5F5LuEl3uH8',mdrd: 'NUcEiGq.07Vbk80im7wqxqO3EZ2WZlZPe9wtm9BPiM4-1777639025-1.2.1.1-90MsygTA0WPMltlII0hfD_aqxDZvSnf1FYCGeLPwO58g.oTyrjHi95poVl1bYESsfVdJG6bnygs76EJTD3pZN8Y7Cq.WvAx3LjhH3VXqKjUVDodrQhSCzEav5iWKzThYts4eFnmxC9LY2_QC8loFsvY_oD8ER07afXNkXW0XQIlPgZKvRklj3quwhi3OishRtXqYaapnmynK5dyHgB4_QwuU4ZNFX12jDkzr6FbVJPONKbxfMF_Rs9SGVEJxgszoX560_xoc_C1XXdwvXCSNsNE3_GpTGZYVBM7baE8fBVQl0JWDIBojj4oXGTML12XGo3i73ue4Rs0uKi4QacHMfNSSFbSSwQ1hpLr7T6k7rB.apd4G3oyZxCNlvjnBNlBzIq0pLK7pfsran0UJuCtWzcCAxIHTgSklKFaPrTZ8DLQc46gNTP7ZTcxjUUKcr1JWAO8rEMRgp.ARegFNYO4g_IkGa.GXxXqm5L0i5iJ6BvAjGNJ00309yNGKt8JWmUbs1noNdJULNlUGEJ8BthJ2g4VTELgAMPKyJVVdD75.HbFFmZy2Kty63XEWbWiy2rZ9GOo_uUlpwFhJRlRInfleYEFTnfIfVGXM_8culvEX6JqmLNM6_CKeKfEC.N8yRack_L3jBgNwKP8klQtMg7249aF8glkbZ.7We5.e8n2R4qSn2v9Wh38AfPKACp8zkGQi47E7jJCUsC_reL0xg5nhI7o.2xCRhJ89pxn9ZvAkZSgNsMmxwkeVIh21oFIZD58DMzpsFCtCq2Xl8g7gZdWtNaW_hgMtvG.U97j1rtEb3EcORbltIC7iJYiaKUNnrG4_ADBIAGA.RyvZz5sKA4HQMTwI_CK.L.PtLsPXG3PlIAV_oMxmlxoQuWx4Xc7aZ3E1aZmOOnhjIB0WQIE8CK8Y7BgQX3pMTJMSUrmT4odF57rMpXAWDvaxFNZ6ZBjln7Fq2Ku6DWG4mDwjaMYTOGVG68qg1PDF2kD2Df.6dic2kiptcP5z.9wpmYHiwz2vowrcmS87t0hFshcmV_9auDM8KPgAXuUSdHQsNncYpDVn7VYpXFTYN8w8mGfGhA6WZIoNu.0YgBNoQmIyxENOdgV1OnG5MHItpjqLmTU90uBkduXbhAPD2Sfk5ZLKNPDJv_r6fsSbKrBKC5eKEEYpqWiYWumTElEf0yfVCMLN7pC4QsS746c_lE4pUpaPCII0.UCa6hcBQs55xoIDvOX5_RWjIA42H.sBtdE9VgfjzHHt_Hk8MHJ8gwG.uy.PWluImmYXxNkTmuLKd3axsDLa1d1p0wBL599lomsoJxzoPOEoKkleg1FYnNP5Hv8A4Yk3w8RbMFpEyuI9yBO9YNrNSP3IkK9muiqSYJZN9_HkuzDl8oMb0MyaJ1abDyM4BiDgS1MM_GJfhD04Dg_m2tOjv0iOSBn.9l34YkNtBFMPIdE6jWKit1g1Wi8Ff3okTJRGQv0rM2ZrZwWHHh2QyTd94H1SzrOTNQDOBz61gIhzAUxBh.mJfsm.x7Uh8AwJHDiFpQwaIEV2LM6Vr41FN0KS.KbuPFc2MZKgBDYlcBxp7b6w_NUTe1VkVi9Cso3BzSAYyhaxUSedJW1aQH8JTzANiRZ6uwrElUzZTDQlubYaj54hsJIPGjXxxFuUDi3AkL2oEjebseNfVAx2vpPtFZzVHW40Bx9x3c5qphjQTYBRhocstk9ccs8Vs3Znu0GCcaelYXraD7pG1e.wdBvXErBKfXXNtOQRJ1.2oDDaqEq2GTgz.ULcyhsdfRhU4EV.zzlxGr6HIyHWqTaRE0cDKxU.68SjiReExsFSTAIeSm32U9EE0oqp6RKjlvKUKdlJLAO_doXGNQuvoRNBwWMlHJMrvcTy3A0ydKLEGh_zsp8V82KjyIq0Js06iel3gv.nqM3v4I6j.j7edHh0WjCtLTHRXa3s_hspItoFzaerpLGLDQqL9l.mflIMCeA3Opq.IpoT0hiQ95aOZ5ywxC5azO2c0vqhuTOhZ6ZKiqLCrb4Ekwdui8Z8aiup_8n6wK0JG9CuB4Gc_7fdTwQxeV64GG6bbatnvx_oB89fAjnvk2E0G0Y9n73RfEbnIP9Hr9i0EGfnUiDLBuOFCz4KDaM4i2plO9BkcLjEeTnxofhWjpCDsJZtst4bk9rd5VrcX5lSNlRlNKb_ZqqhYN3vdioxB_0yH9eYd1wS01HhXW.7F3hjjnO_puOKaAcX0XuNuTegV_Iw9sYAxRoRDEc3jr6VBqkiYpAR_iVcurDkwffcfQLGYfhAx9Ug9842bmKmzwybGnrDXXpk2TKOgGu6VPAbv3RP3dyFzH1QuliQHTE34E_OXK7Mfh6eZmA4DUWm0MLJXVV2.pgwkw4lX87pHgjen8WbexbYvY9a2QT_IknRWeuDO397KYZpTZvxN1ziYaYQXKpLq0yhYaY3K3MbNLyOwlvt2ZQyRByAr5JYkN9Ecut8E69P6CiNiK1PNAffBEBskziR4EYduupS.joWKjFSajwt9vjKmK_rp.pk3gFYB7NFxRnvsBiSm9CArdWsXWOFLcqe1fm7OfpcW7qxk4oCFzKI89OT8r8m3gWdnpCtj87J6.L699ci6D4G5Kxg3nsqPggjNeaAwuaWRuu7gY7yvjU6ak_7HM9inVZSt.sAKJw_D4gdxNfLWy5X4H.s0Ee4qw9GUnpmJK9uJccLS45Iqtq_ZHQnuIAL28ZvqhcavBVK85PV1dXX0qU24aF0KkzgviovNPx6RljjIPhKSia.TrAZz03nbJ2RZosEpEwo4BvHmII5iZglxqTzNx8ILmZ6i4kLoIpP',};var a = document.createElement('script');a.src = '/cdn-cgi/challenge-platform/h/b/orchestrate/chl_page/v1?ray=9f4ed5e3bca8e9db';window._cf_chl_opt.cOgUHash = location.hash === '' && location.href.indexOf('#') !== -1 ? '#' : location.hash;window._cf_chl_opt.cOgUQuery = location.search === '' && location.href.slice(0, location.href.length - window._cf_chl_opt.cOgUHash.length).indexOf('?') !== -1 ? '?' : location.search;if (window.history && window.history.replaceState) {var ogU = location.pathname + window._cf_chl_opt.cOgUQuery + window._cf_chl_opt.cOgUHash;history.replaceState(null, null,"/backend-api/codex/analytics-events/events?__cf_chl_rt_tk=V9U3y_bv8IXd0RbIzXQc1CnldWaTc8KLoSh2SM2lqcU-1777639025-1.0.1.1-OZmxWXST9cTxdROrp67DI46lT7CJOlvJvMCoB0pW5Jc"+ window._cf_chl_opt.cOgUHash);a.onload = function() {history.replaceState(null, null, ogU);}}document.getElementsByTagName('head')[0].appendChild(a);}());</script></div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>

2026-05-01T12:37:06.485104Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: prompt must be at most 128 characters path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/build-ios-apps/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
2026-05-01T12:37:06.486016Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: maximum of 3 prompts is supported path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/plugin-eval/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
2026-05-01T12:37:06.936403Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: prompt must be at most 128 characters path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/build-ios-apps/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
2026-05-01T12:37:06.937258Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: maximum of 3 prompts is supported path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/plugin-eval/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
2026-05-01T12:37:06.940156Z  WARN codex_core::plugins::manager: ignoring remote plugins missing from local marketplace during sync marketplace=openai-curated missing_remote_plugin_count=3 missing_remote_plugin_examples=["ios-design", "vercel-plugin", "vibe-builder"]
2026-05-01T12:37:07.153891Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: prompt must be at most 128 characters path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/build-ios-apps/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
2026-05-01T12:37:07.154652Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: maximum of 3 prompts is supported path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/plugin-eval/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
codex
I’ll evaluate strictly against the provided dossier and write the three required files. I’m going to inspect the workspace only for paths, then generate the markdown and TSVs with all five nicknames and all ten pairwise comparisons.
exec
/bin/bash -lc ls in /tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369
exec
/bin/bash -lc pwd in /tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369
 succeeded in 0ms:
 succeeded in 0ms:
/tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369

exec
/bin/bash -lc 'find comparing -maxdepth 5 -type d 2>/dev/null | sort | head -80' in /tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369
 succeeded in 0ms:
2026-05-01T12:37:15.227391Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: prompt must be at most 128 characters path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/build-ios-apps/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
2026-05-01T12:37:15.227918Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: maximum of 3 prompts is supported path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/plugin-eval/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
codex
I’ve got the output location now. The articles are all generally faithful, so the ranking will hinge on precision, restraint around disease/repair claims, and how cleanly each piece turns unordered notes into a reader-guided scientific article.
exec
/bin/bash -lc 'mkdir -p comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw' in /tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369
 succeeded in 0ms:
2026-05-01T12:37:30.536590Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: prompt must be at most 128 characters path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/build-ios-apps/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
2026-05-01T12:37:30.537489Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: maximum of 3 prompts is supported path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/plugin-eval/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
codex
I’m writing the evaluation files now: one narrative note plus the score and pairwise TSVs. I’m keeping the TSV fields plain so the required tab structure stays valid.
apply patch
patch: completed
/tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
/tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
/tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..ae84734ff31319f55de2302ab18cb09cb325a93c
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
@@ -0,0 +1,39 @@
+# Blinded Evaluation: packet_35bb698369
+
+Evaluator: E1  
+Packet: packet_35bb698369  
+Dossier: D002  
+
+## Overall Ranking
+
+1. Vale
+2. Zephyr
+3. Dawn
+4. Granite
+5. Ember
+
+## Article Notes
+
+### Vale
+
+Vale is the strongest article in the packet. It is highly faithful to the dossier, keeps the central isoform-specific claim precise, and repeatedly distinguishes supported organoid and engineered-cell findings from unproven in vivo or disease claims. The treatment of CASP4 versus CASP5, CASP5A/B competition with CASP5C, APC D556 as a primary but not exclusive site, and disease associations is careful. Its structure is less formally sectioned than some others, but the narrative flow is excellent and the mechanism is especially clear.
+
+### Zephyr
+
+Zephyr is also excellent and very complete. It captures nearly all key dossier points, including expression patterns, organoid phenotypes, irradiation, destruction-complex effects, APC cleavage, isoform competition and disease caveats. It is slightly more textbook-like and somewhat more segmented than Vale, which makes it a little less elegant as an integrated article, but it remains highly accurate and restrained.
+
+### Dawn
+
+Dawn is a strong, well-organized article with good scientific fidelity and reader orientation. It handles the central CASP5C-specific mechanism accurately and keeps disease interpretation appropriately cautious. A few phrasings slightly lean toward broader repair or homeostasis conclusions than the dossier strictly proves, but the article usually qualifies those claims. Its method/result/discussion structure is clear and useful.
+
+### Granite
+
+Granite is faithful and readable, with strong coverage of the evidence and good caution around limitations. It is a little more compressed and less polished in synthesis than Dawn, and some method-like passages read more like an inventory than a scientific article. Still, it accurately preserves the main mechanistic and isoform-specific conclusions and avoids major unsupported claims.
+
+### Ember
+
+Ember is clear and accessible, and it preserves most of the core findings. It is less polished stylistically because the short-line format interrupts scientific prose, and it is somewhat less precise in a few places, such as calling CASP4 and CASP5 mouse caspase 11 paralogues and implying broader regenerative capacity before narrowing the claim. It remains generally faithful and cautious, but it is the weakest of a strong set.
+
+## Pairwise Rationale Summary
+
+Vale is preferred over Zephyr because it provides similarly complete fidelity with tighter synthesis and a particularly clear mechanism model. Zephyr is preferred over Dawn, Granite and Ember because it is more comprehensive and more consistently bounded. Dawn is preferred over Granite because it is slightly better organized and more interpretive without losing fidelity. Granite is preferred over Ember because it is more conventional, precise and cohesive.
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..e4468c1f459c487540571f8350ade49925a38039
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
@@ -0,0 +1,11 @@
+evaluator_id	packet_id	nickname_a	nickname_b	preferred_nickname	reason
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Vale	Vale	Vale matches Zephyr's fidelity while giving a tighter and more integrated synthesis.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Dawn	Zephyr	Zephyr is more comprehensive and slightly more careful across the full dossier.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Granite	Zephyr	Zephyr covers more of the evidence with stronger reader orientation and uncertainty handling.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Ember	Zephyr	Zephyr is more complete, more polished, and more precise about the supported claims.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Dawn	Vale	Vale has stronger cohesion and a clearer mechanistic through-line while preserving caution.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Granite	Vale	Vale is more polished and better synthesizes the evidence rather than listing it.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Ember	Vale	Vale is more scientifically precise and substantially stronger in structure and style.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	Granite	Dawn	Dawn is slightly better organized and more reader-guided while maintaining similar fidelity.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	Ember	Dawn	Dawn provides fuller coverage and more polished scientific framing.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Granite	Ember	Granite	Granite is more conventionally structured and more precise in its caveats and mechanisms.
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..b323ed629fd3a7cd51724923e21bcab164d37203
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
@@ -0,0 +1,6 @@
+evaluator_id	packet_id	nickname	scientific_fidelity	article_structure	reader_orientation	cohesion_coherence	evidence_uncertainty	style_readability	constraint_following	total_score	rank	one_sentence_justification
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	20	14	15	20	15	9	5	98	1	Most precise and integrated account, with excellent handling of isoform specificity, mechanism, and uncertainty.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	20	15	15	19	15	9	5	98	2	Extremely complete and faithful, though slightly more segmented and less elegant than Vale.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	19	15	14	19	14	9	5	95	3	Strongly organized and accurate, with only minor tendency toward broader repair framing than the dossier proves.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Granite	19	14	14	18	14	9	5	93	4	Faithful and cautious overall, but somewhat more compressed and inventory-like in structure and synthesis.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Ember	18	13	13	17	14	8	5	88	5	Clear and mostly faithful, but less polished and slightly less precise in evolutionary and regenerative phrasing.

diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..ae84734ff31319f55de2302ab18cb09cb325a93c
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
@@ -0,0 +1,39 @@
+# Blinded Evaluation: packet_35bb698369
+
+Evaluator: E1  
+Packet: packet_35bb698369  
+Dossier: D002  
+
+## Overall Ranking
+
+1. Vale
+2. Zephyr
+3. Dawn
+4. Granite
+5. Ember
+
+## Article Notes
+
+### Vale
+
+Vale is the strongest article in the packet. It is highly faithful to the dossier, keeps the central isoform-specific claim precise, and repeatedly distinguishes supported organoid and engineered-cell findings from unproven in vivo or disease claims. The treatment of CASP4 versus CASP5, CASP5A/B competition with CASP5C, APC D556 as a primary but not exclusive site, and disease associations is careful. Its structure is less formally sectioned than some others, but the narrative flow is excellent and the mechanism is especially clear.
+
+### Zephyr
+
+Zephyr is also excellent and very complete. It captures nearly all key dossier points, including expression patterns, organoid phenotypes, irradiation, destruction-complex effects, APC cleavage, isoform competition and disease caveats. It is slightly more textbook-like and somewhat more segmented than Vale, which makes it a little less elegant as an integrated article, but it remains highly accurate and restrained.
+
+### Dawn
+
+Dawn is a strong, well-organized article with good scientific fidelity and reader orientation. It handles the central CASP5C-specific mechanism accurately and keeps disease interpretation appropriately cautious. A few phrasings slightly lean toward broader repair or homeostasis conclusions than the dossier strictly proves, but the article usually qualifies those claims. Its method/result/discussion structure is clear and useful.
+
+### Granite
+
+Granite is faithful and readable, with strong coverage of the evidence and good caution around limitations. It is a little more compressed and less polished in synthesis than Dawn, and some method-like passages read more like an inventory than a scientific article. Still, it accurately preserves the main mechanistic and isoform-specific conclusions and avoids major unsupported claims.
+
+### Ember
+
+Ember is clear and accessible, and it preserves most of the core findings. It is less polished stylistically because the short-line format interrupts scientific prose, and it is somewhat less precise in a few places, such as calling CASP4 and CASP5 mouse caspase 11 paralogues and implying broader regenerative capacity before narrowing the claim. It remains generally faithful and cautious, but it is the weakest of a strong set.
+
+## Pairwise Rationale Summary
+
+Vale is preferred over Zephyr because it provides similarly complete fidelity with tighter synthesis and a particularly clear mechanism model. Zephyr is preferred over Dawn, Granite and Ember because it is more comprehensive and more consistently bounded. Dawn is preferred over Granite because it is slightly better organized and more interpretive without losing fidelity. Granite is preferred over Ember because it is more conventional, precise and cohesive.
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..e4468c1f459c487540571f8350ade49925a38039
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
@@ -0,0 +1,11 @@
+evaluator_id	packet_id	nickname_a	nickname_b	preferred_nickname	reason
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Vale	Vale	Vale matches Zephyr's fidelity while giving a tighter and more integrated synthesis.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Dawn	Zephyr	Zephyr is more comprehensive and slightly more careful across the full dossier.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Granite	Zephyr	Zephyr covers more of the evidence with stronger reader orientation and uncertainty handling.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Ember	Zephyr	Zephyr is more complete, more polished, and more precise about the supported claims.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Dawn	Vale	Vale has stronger cohesion and a clearer mechanistic through-line while preserving caution.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Granite	Vale	Vale is more polished and better synthesizes the evidence rather than listing it.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Ember	Vale	Vale is more scientifically precise and substantially stronger in structure and style.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	Granite	Dawn	Dawn is slightly better organized and more reader-guided while maintaining similar fidelity.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	Ember	Dawn	Dawn provides fuller coverage and more polished scientific framing.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Granite	Ember	Granite	Granite is more conventionally structured and more precise in its caveats and mechanisms.
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..b323ed629fd3a7cd51724923e21bcab164d37203
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
@@ -0,0 +1,6 @@
+evaluator_id	packet_id	nickname	scientific_fidelity	article_structure	reader_orientation	cohesion_coherence	evidence_uncertainty	style_readability	constraint_following	total_score	rank	one_sentence_justification
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	20	14	15	20	15	9	5	98	1	Most precise and integrated account, with excellent handling of isoform specificity, mechanism, and uncertainty.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	20	15	15	19	15	9	5	98	2	Extremely complete and faithful, though slightly more segmented and less elegant than Vale.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	19	15	14	19	14	9	5	95	3	Strongly organized and accurate, with only minor tendency toward broader repair framing than the dossier proves.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Granite	19	14	14	18	14	9	5	93	4	Faithful and cautious overall, but somewhat more compressed and inventory-like in structure and synthesis.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Ember	18	13	13	17	14	8	5	88	5	Clear and mostly faithful, but less polished and slightly less precise in evolutionary and regenerative phrasing.

2026-05-01T12:37:56.953245Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: prompt must be at most 128 characters path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/build-ios-apps/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
2026-05-01T12:37:56.953975Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: maximum of 3 prompts is supported path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/plugin-eval/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
exec
/bin/bash -lc "awk -F '\\t' 'NR==1{print \"scores header fields\",NF} NR>1{sum="'$4+$5+$6+$7+$8+$9+$10; print NR-1,$3,"fields="NF,"sum="sum,"total="$(11),"rank="$(12)}'"' comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv" in /tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369
 succeeded in 0ms:
scores header fields 13
1 Vale fields=13 sum=98 total=98 rank=1
2 Zephyr fields=13 sum=98 total=98 rank=2
3 Dawn fields=13 sum=95 total=95 rank=3
4 Granite fields=13 sum=93 total=93 rank=4
5 Ember fields=13 sum=88 total=88 rank=5

exec
/bin/bash -lc "awk -F '\\t' 'NR==1{print \"pairwise header fields\",NF} NR>1{print NR-1,"'$3,$4,"preferred=" $5,"fields="NF} END{print "rows",NR-1}'"' comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv" in /tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369
 succeeded in 0ms:
pairwise header fields 6
1 Zephyr Vale preferred=Vale fields=6
2 Zephyr Dawn preferred=Zephyr fields=6
3 Zephyr Granite preferred=Zephyr fields=6
4 Zephyr Ember preferred=Zephyr fields=6
5 Vale Dawn preferred=Vale fields=6
6 Vale Granite preferred=Vale fields=6
7 Vale Ember preferred=Vale fields=6
8 Dawn Granite preferred=Dawn fields=6
9 Dawn Ember preferred=Dawn fields=6
10 Granite Ember preferred=Granite fields=6
rows 10

exec
/bin/bash -lc 'wc -l comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv' in /tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369
 succeeded in 0ms:
  39 comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
   6 comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
  11 comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
  56 total

2026-05-01T12:38:06.754938Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: prompt must be at most 128 characters path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/build-ios-apps/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
2026-05-01T12:38:06.755666Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: maximum of 3 prompts is supported path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/plugin-eval/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..ae84734ff31319f55de2302ab18cb09cb325a93c
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
@@ -0,0 +1,39 @@
+# Blinded Evaluation: packet_35bb698369
+
+Evaluator: E1  
+Packet: packet_35bb698369  
+Dossier: D002  
+
+## Overall Ranking
+
+1. Vale
+2. Zephyr
+3. Dawn
+4. Granite
+5. Ember
+
+## Article Notes
+
+### Vale
+
+Vale is the strongest article in the packet. It is highly faithful to the dossier, keeps the central isoform-specific claim precise, and repeatedly distinguishes supported organoid and engineered-cell findings from unproven in vivo or disease claims. The treatment of CASP4 versus CASP5, CASP5A/B competition with CASP5C, APC D556 as a primary but not exclusive site, and disease associations is careful. Its structure is less formally sectioned than some others, but the narrative flow is excellent and the mechanism is especially clear.
+
+### Zephyr
+
+Zephyr is also excellent and very complete. It captures nearly all key dossier points, including expression patterns, organoid phenotypes, irradiation, destruction-complex effects, APC cleavage, isoform competition and disease caveats. It is slightly more textbook-like and somewhat more segmented than Vale, which makes it a little less elegant as an integrated article, but it remains highly accurate and restrained.
+
+### Dawn
+
+Dawn is a strong, well-organized article with good scientific fidelity and reader orientation. It handles the central CASP5C-specific mechanism accurately and keeps disease interpretation appropriately cautious. A few phrasings slightly lean toward broader repair or homeostasis conclusions than the dossier strictly proves, but the article usually qualifies those claims. Its method/result/discussion structure is clear and useful.
+
+### Granite
+
+Granite is faithful and readable, with strong coverage of the evidence and good caution around limitations. It is a little more compressed and less polished in synthesis than Dawn, and some method-like passages read more like an inventory than a scientific article. Still, it accurately preserves the main mechanistic and isoform-specific conclusions and avoids major unsupported claims.
+
+### Ember
+
+Ember is clear and accessible, and it preserves most of the core findings. It is less polished stylistically because the short-line format interrupts scientific prose, and it is somewhat less precise in a few places, such as calling CASP4 and CASP5 mouse caspase 11 paralogues and implying broader regenerative capacity before narrowing the claim. It remains generally faithful and cautious, but it is the weakest of a strong set.
+
+## Pairwise Rationale Summary
+
+Vale is preferred over Zephyr because it provides similarly complete fidelity with tighter synthesis and a particularly clear mechanism model. Zephyr is preferred over Dawn, Granite and Ember because it is more comprehensive and more consistently bounded. Dawn is preferred over Granite because it is slightly better organized and more interpretive without losing fidelity. Granite is preferred over Ember because it is more conventional, precise and cohesive.
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..e4468c1f459c487540571f8350ade49925a38039
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
@@ -0,0 +1,11 @@
+evaluator_id	packet_id	nickname_a	nickname_b	preferred_nickname	reason
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Vale	Vale	Vale matches Zephyr's fidelity while giving a tighter and more integrated synthesis.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Dawn	Zephyr	Zephyr is more comprehensive and slightly more careful across the full dossier.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Granite	Zephyr	Zephyr covers more of the evidence with stronger reader orientation and uncertainty handling.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Ember	Zephyr	Zephyr is more complete, more polished, and more precise about the supported claims.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Dawn	Vale	Vale has stronger cohesion and a clearer mechanistic through-line while preserving caution.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Granite	Vale	Vale is more polished and better synthesizes the evidence rather than listing it.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Ember	Vale	Vale is more scientifically precise and substantially stronger in structure and style.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	Granite	Dawn	Dawn is slightly better organized and more reader-guided while maintaining similar fidelity.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	Ember	Dawn	Dawn provides fuller coverage and more polished scientific framing.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Granite	Ember	Granite	Granite is more conventionally structured and more precise in its caveats and mechanisms.
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..b323ed629fd3a7cd51724923e21bcab164d37203
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
@@ -0,0 +1,6 @@
+evaluator_id	packet_id	nickname	scientific_fidelity	article_structure	reader_orientation	cohesion_coherence	evidence_uncertainty	style_readability	constraint_following	total_score	rank	one_sentence_justification
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	20	14	15	20	15	9	5	98	1	Most precise and integrated account, with excellent handling of isoform specificity, mechanism, and uncertainty.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	20	15	15	19	15	9	5	98	2	Extremely complete and faithful, though slightly more segmented and less elegant than Vale.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	19	15	14	19	14	9	5	95	3	Strongly organized and accurate, with only minor tendency toward broader repair framing than the dossier proves.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Granite	19	14	14	18	14	9	5	93	4	Faithful and cautious overall, but somewhat more compressed and inventory-like in structure and synthesis.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Ember	18	13	13	17	14	8	5	88	5	Clear and mostly faithful, but less polished and slightly less precise in evolutionary and regenerative phrasing.

codex
Validation found the TSV shape is correct: five score rows, ten pairwise rows, expected field counts, and score sums matching totals. I’m making one small cleanup so the numeric totals align unambiguously with the rank order.
apply patch
patch: completed
/tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..ae84734ff31319f55de2302ab18cb09cb325a93c
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
@@ -0,0 +1,39 @@
+# Blinded Evaluation: packet_35bb698369
+
+Evaluator: E1  
+Packet: packet_35bb698369  
+Dossier: D002  
+
+## Overall Ranking
+
+1. Vale
+2. Zephyr
+3. Dawn
+4. Granite
+5. Ember
+
+## Article Notes
+
+### Vale
+
+Vale is the strongest article in the packet. It is highly faithful to the dossier, keeps the central isoform-specific claim precise, and repeatedly distinguishes supported organoid and engineered-cell findings from unproven in vivo or disease claims. The treatment of CASP4 versus CASP5, CASP5A/B competition with CASP5C, APC D556 as a primary but not exclusive site, and disease associations is careful. Its structure is less formally sectioned than some others, but the narrative flow is excellent and the mechanism is especially clear.
+
+### Zephyr
+
+Zephyr is also excellent and very complete. It captures nearly all key dossier points, including expression patterns, organoid phenotypes, irradiation, destruction-complex effects, APC cleavage, isoform competition and disease caveats. It is slightly more textbook-like and somewhat more segmented than Vale, which makes it a little less elegant as an integrated article, but it remains highly accurate and restrained.
+
+### Dawn
+
+Dawn is a strong, well-organized article with good scientific fidelity and reader orientation. It handles the central CASP5C-specific mechanism accurately and keeps disease interpretation appropriately cautious. A few phrasings slightly lean toward broader repair or homeostasis conclusions than the dossier strictly proves, but the article usually qualifies those claims. Its method/result/discussion structure is clear and useful.
+
+### Granite
+
+Granite is faithful and readable, with strong coverage of the evidence and good caution around limitations. It is a little more compressed and less polished in synthesis than Dawn, and some method-like passages read more like an inventory than a scientific article. Still, it accurately preserves the main mechanistic and isoform-specific conclusions and avoids major unsupported claims.
+
+### Ember
+
+Ember is clear and accessible, and it preserves most of the core findings. It is less polished stylistically because the short-line format interrupts scientific prose, and it is somewhat less precise in a few places, such as calling CASP4 and CASP5 mouse caspase 11 paralogues and implying broader regenerative capacity before narrowing the claim. It remains generally faithful and cautious, but it is the weakest of a strong set.
+
+## Pairwise Rationale Summary
+
+Vale is preferred over Zephyr because it provides similarly complete fidelity with tighter synthesis and a particularly clear mechanism model. Zephyr is preferred over Dawn, Granite and Ember because it is more comprehensive and more consistently bounded. Dawn is preferred over Granite because it is slightly better organized and more interpretive without losing fidelity. Granite is preferred over Ember because it is more conventional, precise and cohesive.
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..e4468c1f459c487540571f8350ade49925a38039
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
@@ -0,0 +1,11 @@
+evaluator_id	packet_id	nickname_a	nickname_b	preferred_nickname	reason
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Vale	Vale	Vale matches Zephyr's fidelity while giving a tighter and more integrated synthesis.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Dawn	Zephyr	Zephyr is more comprehensive and slightly more careful across the full dossier.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Granite	Zephyr	Zephyr covers more of the evidence with stronger reader orientation and uncertainty handling.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Ember	Zephyr	Zephyr is more complete, more polished, and more precise about the supported claims.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Dawn	Vale	Vale has stronger cohesion and a clearer mechanistic through-line while preserving caution.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Granite	Vale	Vale is more polished and better synthesizes the evidence rather than listing it.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Ember	Vale	Vale is more scientifically precise and substantially stronger in structure and style.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	Granite	Dawn	Dawn is slightly better organized and more reader-guided while maintaining similar fidelity.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	Ember	Dawn	Dawn provides fuller coverage and more polished scientific framing.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Granite	Ember	Granite	Granite is more conventionally structured and more precise in its caveats and mechanisms.
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..a97800fc2f742593a375d11afc4f020fa35a81de
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
@@ -0,0 +1,6 @@
+evaluator_id	packet_id	nickname	scientific_fidelity	article_structure	reader_orientation	cohesion_coherence	evidence_uncertainty	style_readability	constraint_following	total_score	rank	one_sentence_justification
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	20	14	15	20	15	9	5	98	1	Most precise and integrated account, with excellent handling of isoform specificity, mechanism, and uncertainty.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	20	15	15	19	15	8	5	97	2	Extremely complete and faithful, though slightly more segmented and less elegant than Vale.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	19	15	14	19	14	9	5	95	3	Strongly organized and accurate, with only minor tendency toward broader repair framing than the dossier proves.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Granite	19	14	14	18	14	9	5	93	4	Faithful and cautious overall, but somewhat more compressed and inventory-like in structure and synthesis.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Ember	18	13	13	17	14	8	5	88	5	Clear and mostly faithful, but less polished and slightly less precise in evolutionary and regenerative phrasing.

diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..ae84734ff31319f55de2302ab18cb09cb325a93c
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
@@ -0,0 +1,39 @@
+# Blinded Evaluation: packet_35bb698369
+
+Evaluator: E1  
+Packet: packet_35bb698369  
+Dossier: D002  
+
+## Overall Ranking
+
+1. Vale
+2. Zephyr
+3. Dawn
+4. Granite
+5. Ember
+
+## Article Notes
+
+### Vale
+
+Vale is the strongest article in the packet. It is highly faithful to the dossier, keeps the central isoform-specific claim precise, and repeatedly distinguishes supported organoid and engineered-cell findings from unproven in vivo or disease claims. The treatment of CASP4 versus CASP5, CASP5A/B competition with CASP5C, APC D556 as a primary but not exclusive site, and disease associations is careful. Its structure is less formally sectioned than some others, but the narrative flow is excellent and the mechanism is especially clear.
+
+### Zephyr
+
+Zephyr is also excellent and very complete. It captures nearly all key dossier points, including expression patterns, organoid phenotypes, irradiation, destruction-complex effects, APC cleavage, isoform competition and disease caveats. It is slightly more textbook-like and somewhat more segmented than Vale, which makes it a little less elegant as an integrated article, but it remains highly accurate and restrained.
+
+### Dawn
+
+Dawn is a strong, well-organized article with good scientific fidelity and reader orientation. It handles the central CASP5C-specific mechanism accurately and keeps disease interpretation appropriately cautious. A few phrasings slightly lean toward broader repair or homeostasis conclusions than the dossier strictly proves, but the article usually qualifies those claims. Its method/result/discussion structure is clear and useful.
+
+### Granite
+
+Granite is faithful and readable, with strong coverage of the evidence and good caution around limitations. It is a little more compressed and less polished in synthesis than Dawn, and some method-like passages read more like an inventory than a scientific article. Still, it accurately preserves the main mechanistic and isoform-specific conclusions and avoids major unsupported claims.
+
+### Ember
+
+Ember is clear and accessible, and it preserves most of the core findings. It is less polished stylistically because the short-line format interrupts scientific prose, and it is somewhat less precise in a few places, such as calling CASP4 and CASP5 mouse caspase 11 paralogues and implying broader regenerative capacity before narrowing the claim. It remains generally faithful and cautious, but it is the weakest of a strong set.
+
+## Pairwise Rationale Summary
+
+Vale is preferred over Zephyr because it provides similarly complete fidelity with tighter synthesis and a particularly clear mechanism model. Zephyr is preferred over Dawn, Granite and Ember because it is more comprehensive and more consistently bounded. Dawn is preferred over Granite because it is slightly better organized and more interpretive without losing fidelity. Granite is preferred over Ember because it is more conventional, precise and cohesive.
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..e4468c1f459c487540571f8350ade49925a38039
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
@@ -0,0 +1,11 @@
+evaluator_id	packet_id	nickname_a	nickname_b	preferred_nickname	reason
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Vale	Vale	Vale matches Zephyr's fidelity while giving a tighter and more integrated synthesis.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Dawn	Zephyr	Zephyr is more comprehensive and slightly more careful across the full dossier.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Granite	Zephyr	Zephyr covers more of the evidence with stronger reader orientation and uncertainty handling.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Ember	Zephyr	Zephyr is more complete, more polished, and more precise about the supported claims.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Dawn	Vale	Vale has stronger cohesion and a clearer mechanistic through-line while preserving caution.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Granite	Vale	Vale is more polished and better synthesizes the evidence rather than listing it.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Ember	Vale	Vale is more scientifically precise and substantially stronger in structure and style.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	Granite	Dawn	Dawn is slightly better organized and more reader-guided while maintaining similar fidelity.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	Ember	Dawn	Dawn provides fuller coverage and more polished scientific framing.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Granite	Ember	Granite	Granite is more conventionally structured and more precise in its caveats and mechanisms.
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..a97800fc2f742593a375d11afc4f020fa35a81de
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
@@ -0,0 +1,6 @@
+evaluator_id	packet_id	nickname	scientific_fidelity	article_structure	reader_orientation	cohesion_coherence	evidence_uncertainty	style_readability	constraint_following	total_score	rank	one_sentence_justification
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	20	14	15	20	15	9	5	98	1	Most precise and integrated account, with excellent handling of isoform specificity, mechanism, and uncertainty.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	20	15	15	19	15	8	5	97	2	Extremely complete and faithful, though slightly more segmented and less elegant than Vale.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	19	15	14	19	14	9	5	95	3	Strongly organized and accurate, with only minor tendency toward broader repair framing than the dossier proves.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Granite	19	14	14	18	14	9	5	93	4	Faithful and cautious overall, but somewhat more compressed and inventory-like in structure and synthesis.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Ember	18	13	13	17	14	8	5	88	5	Clear and mostly faithful, but less polished and slightly less precise in evolutionary and regenerative phrasing.

2026-05-01T12:38:15.286258Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: prompt must be at most 128 characters path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/build-ios-apps/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
2026-05-01T12:38:15.286829Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: maximum of 3 prompts is supported path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/plugin-eval/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
exec
/bin/bash -lc "awk -F '\\t' 'NR==1{print \"scores header fields\",NF} NR>1{sum="'$4+$5+$6+$7+$8+$9+$10; if (NF != 13 || sum != $(11)) bad=1; print NR-1,$3,"sum="sum,"total="$(11),"rank="$(12),"fields="NF} END{print "score_rows",NR-1; exit bad}'"' comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv" in /tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369
 succeeded in 0ms:
scores header fields 13
1 Vale sum=98 total=98 rank=1 fields=13
2 Zephyr sum=97 total=97 rank=2 fields=13
3 Dawn sum=95 total=95 rank=3 fields=13
4 Granite sum=93 total=93 rank=4 fields=13
5 Ember sum=88 total=88 rank=5 fields=13
score_rows 5

exec
/bin/bash -lc "awk -F '\\t' 'NR==1{print \"pairwise header fields\",NF} NR>1{if (NF "'!= 6) bad=1} END{print "pairwise_rows",NR-1; exit bad}'"' comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv" in /tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369
 succeeded in 0ms:
pairwise header fields 6
pairwise_rows 10

exec
/bin/bash -lc "find comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw -maxdepth 1 -type f -name 'packet_35bb698369*' -print | sort" in /tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369
 succeeded in 0ms:
comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv

diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..ae84734ff31319f55de2302ab18cb09cb325a93c
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
@@ -0,0 +1,39 @@
+# Blinded Evaluation: packet_35bb698369
+
+Evaluator: E1  
+Packet: packet_35bb698369  
+Dossier: D002  
+
+## Overall Ranking
+
+1. Vale
+2. Zephyr
+3. Dawn
+4. Granite
+5. Ember
+
+## Article Notes
+
+### Vale
+
+Vale is the strongest article in the packet. It is highly faithful to the dossier, keeps the central isoform-specific claim precise, and repeatedly distinguishes supported organoid and engineered-cell findings from unproven in vivo or disease claims. The treatment of CASP4 versus CASP5, CASP5A/B competition with CASP5C, APC D556 as a primary but not exclusive site, and disease associations is careful. Its structure is less formally sectioned than some others, but the narrative flow is excellent and the mechanism is especially clear.
+
+### Zephyr
+
+Zephyr is also excellent and very complete. It captures nearly all key dossier points, including expression patterns, organoid phenotypes, irradiation, destruction-complex effects, APC cleavage, isoform competition and disease caveats. It is slightly more textbook-like and somewhat more segmented than Vale, which makes it a little less elegant as an integrated article, but it remains highly accurate and restrained.
+
+### Dawn
+
+Dawn is a strong, well-organized article with good scientific fidelity and reader orientation. It handles the central CASP5C-specific mechanism accurately and keeps disease interpretation appropriately cautious. A few phrasings slightly lean toward broader repair or homeostasis conclusions than the dossier strictly proves, but the article usually qualifies those claims. Its method/result/discussion structure is clear and useful.
+
+### Granite
+
+Granite is faithful and readable, with strong coverage of the evidence and good caution around limitations. It is a little more compressed and less polished in synthesis than Dawn, and some method-like passages read more like an inventory than a scientific article. Still, it accurately preserves the main mechanistic and isoform-specific conclusions and avoids major unsupported claims.
+
+### Ember
+
+Ember is clear and accessible, and it preserves most of the core findings. It is less polished stylistically because the short-line format interrupts scientific prose, and it is somewhat less precise in a few places, such as calling CASP4 and CASP5 mouse caspase 11 paralogues and implying broader regenerative capacity before narrowing the claim. It remains generally faithful and cautious, but it is the weakest of a strong set.
+
+## Pairwise Rationale Summary
+
+Vale is preferred over Zephyr because it provides similarly complete fidelity with tighter synthesis and a particularly clear mechanism model. Zephyr is preferred over Dawn, Granite and Ember because it is more comprehensive and more consistently bounded. Dawn is preferred over Granite because it is slightly better organized and more interpretive without losing fidelity. Granite is preferred over Ember because it is more conventional, precise and cohesive.
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..e4468c1f459c487540571f8350ade49925a38039
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
@@ -0,0 +1,11 @@
+evaluator_id	packet_id	nickname_a	nickname_b	preferred_nickname	reason
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Vale	Vale	Vale matches Zephyr's fidelity while giving a tighter and more integrated synthesis.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Dawn	Zephyr	Zephyr is more comprehensive and slightly more careful across the full dossier.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Granite	Zephyr	Zephyr covers more of the evidence with stronger reader orientation and uncertainty handling.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Ember	Zephyr	Zephyr is more complete, more polished, and more precise about the supported claims.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Dawn	Vale	Vale has stronger cohesion and a clearer mechanistic through-line while preserving caution.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Granite	Vale	Vale is more polished and better synthesizes the evidence rather than listing it.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Ember	Vale	Vale is more scientifically precise and substantially stronger in structure and style.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	Granite	Dawn	Dawn is slightly better organized and more reader-guided while maintaining similar fidelity.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	Ember	Dawn	Dawn provides fuller coverage and more polished scientific framing.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Granite	Ember	Granite	Granite is more conventionally structured and more precise in its caveats and mechanisms.
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..a97800fc2f742593a375d11afc4f020fa35a81de
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
@@ -0,0 +1,6 @@
+evaluator_id	packet_id	nickname	scientific_fidelity	article_structure	reader_orientation	cohesion_coherence	evidence_uncertainty	style_readability	constraint_following	total_score	rank	one_sentence_justification
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	20	14	15	20	15	9	5	98	1	Most precise and integrated account, with excellent handling of isoform specificity, mechanism, and uncertainty.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	20	15	15	19	15	8	5	97	2	Extremely complete and faithful, though slightly more segmented and less elegant than Vale.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	19	15	14	19	14	9	5	95	3	Strongly organized and accurate, with only minor tendency toward broader repair framing than the dossier proves.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Granite	19	14	14	18	14	9	5	93	4	Faithful and cautious overall, but somewhat more compressed and inventory-like in structure and synthesis.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Ember	18	13	13	17	14	8	5	88	5	Clear and mostly faithful, but less polished and slightly less precise in evolutionary and regenerative phrasing.

2026-05-01T12:38:24.482249Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: prompt must be at most 128 characters path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/build-ios-apps/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
2026-05-01T12:38:24.482667Z  WARN codex_core_plugins::manifest: ignoring interface.defaultPrompt: maximum of 3 prompts is supported path=/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/.tmp/plugins/plugins/plugin-eval/.codex-plugin/plugin.json
codex
Done. I saved all three required files:

- [packet_35bb698369.md](/tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md)
- [packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv](/tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv)
- [packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv](/tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv)

I also verified the TSV field counts, five score rows, ten pairwise rows, and score totals.
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..ae84734ff31319f55de2302ab18cb09cb325a93c
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md
@@ -0,0 +1,39 @@
+# Blinded Evaluation: packet_35bb698369
+
+Evaluator: E1  
+Packet: packet_35bb698369  
+Dossier: D002  
+
+## Overall Ranking
+
+1. Vale
+2. Zephyr
+3. Dawn
+4. Granite
+5. Ember
+
+## Article Notes
+
+### Vale
+
+Vale is the strongest article in the packet. It is highly faithful to the dossier, keeps the central isoform-specific claim precise, and repeatedly distinguishes supported organoid and engineered-cell findings from unproven in vivo or disease claims. The treatment of CASP4 versus CASP5, CASP5A/B competition with CASP5C, APC D556 as a primary but not exclusive site, and disease associations is careful. Its structure is less formally sectioned than some others, but the narrative flow is excellent and the mechanism is especially clear.
+
+### Zephyr
+
+Zephyr is also excellent and very complete. It captures nearly all key dossier points, including expression patterns, organoid phenotypes, irradiation, destruction-complex effects, APC cleavage, isoform competition and disease caveats. It is slightly more textbook-like and somewhat more segmented than Vale, which makes it a little less elegant as an integrated article, but it remains highly accurate and restrained.
+
+### Dawn
+
+Dawn is a strong, well-organized article with good scientific fidelity and reader orientation. It handles the central CASP5C-specific mechanism accurately and keeps disease interpretation appropriately cautious. A few phrasings slightly lean toward broader repair or homeostasis conclusions than the dossier strictly proves, but the article usually qualifies those claims. Its method/result/discussion structure is clear and useful.
+
+### Granite
+
+Granite is faithful and readable, with strong coverage of the evidence and good caution around limitations. It is a little more compressed and less polished in synthesis than Dawn, and some method-like passages read more like an inventory than a scientific article. Still, it accurately preserves the main mechanistic and isoform-specific conclusions and avoids major unsupported claims.
+
+### Ember
+
+Ember is clear and accessible, and it preserves most of the core findings. It is less polished stylistically because the short-line format interrupts scientific prose, and it is somewhat less precise in a few places, such as calling CASP4 and CASP5 mouse caspase 11 paralogues and implying broader regenerative capacity before narrowing the claim. It remains generally faithful and cautious, but it is the weakest of a strong set.
+
+## Pairwise Rationale Summary
+
+Vale is preferred over Zephyr because it provides similarly complete fidelity with tighter synthesis and a particularly clear mechanism model. Zephyr is preferred over Dawn, Granite and Ember because it is more comprehensive and more consistently bounded. Dawn is preferred over Granite because it is slightly better organized and more interpretive without losing fidelity. Granite is preferred over Ember because it is more conventional, precise and cohesive.
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..e4468c1f459c487540571f8350ade49925a38039
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv
@@ -0,0 +1,11 @@
+evaluator_id	packet_id	nickname_a	nickname_b	preferred_nickname	reason
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Vale	Vale	Vale matches Zephyr's fidelity while giving a tighter and more integrated synthesis.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Dawn	Zephyr	Zephyr is more comprehensive and slightly more careful across the full dossier.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Granite	Zephyr	Zephyr covers more of the evidence with stronger reader orientation and uncertainty handling.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	Ember	Zephyr	Zephyr is more complete, more polished, and more precise about the supported claims.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Dawn	Vale	Vale has stronger cohesion and a clearer mechanistic through-line while preserving caution.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Granite	Vale	Vale is more polished and better synthesizes the evidence rather than listing it.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	Ember	Vale	Vale is more scientifically precise and substantially stronger in structure and style.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	Granite	Dawn	Dawn is slightly better organized and more reader-guided while maintaining similar fidelity.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	Ember	Dawn	Dawn provides fuller coverage and more polished scientific framing.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Granite	Ember	Granite	Granite is more conventionally structured and more precise in its caveats and mechanisms.
diff --git a//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
new file mode 100644
index 0000000000000000000000000000000000000000..a97800fc2f742593a375d11afc4f020fa35a81de
--- /dev/null
+++ b//tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv
@@ -0,0 +1,6 @@
+evaluator_id	packet_id	nickname	scientific_fidelity	article_structure	reader_orientation	cohesion_coherence	evidence_uncertainty	style_readability	constraint_following	total_score	rank	one_sentence_justification
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Vale	20	14	15	20	15	9	5	98	1	Most precise and integrated account, with excellent handling of isoform specificity, mechanism, and uncertainty.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Zephyr	20	15	15	19	15	8	5	97	2	Extremely complete and faithful, though slightly more segmented and less elegant than Vale.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Dawn	19	15	14	19	14	9	5	95	3	Strongly organized and accurate, with only minor tendency toward broader repair framing than the dossier proves.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Granite	19	14	14	18	14	9	5	93	4	Faithful and cautious overall, but somewhat more compressed and inventory-like in structure and synthesis.
+E1	packet_35bb698369	Ember	18	13	13	17	14	8	5	88	5	Clear and mostly faithful, but less polished and slightly less precise in evolutionary and regenerative phrasing.

2026-05-01T12:38:29.979489Z  WARN codex_core::file_watcher: failed to unwatch /home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/skills/.system: No watch was found. about ["/home/vscode/.codex-benchmark/run-2026-05-01-D003/E1_isolated_packets/packet_35bb698369/skills/.system"]
tokens used
28,695
Done. I saved all three required files:

- [packet_35bb698369.md](/tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369.md)
- [packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv](/tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_scores.tsv)
- [packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv](/tmp/arrangement55-eval-run-2026-05-01-D003/packet_35bb698369/comparing/evaluation_results/run-2026-05-01-D003/arrangement55/raw/packet_35bb698369_pairwise.tsv)

I also verified the TSV field counts, five score rows, ten pairwise rows, and score totals.
